---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3896)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3896/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3896"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M,

                1 2 t h E d i t i o n



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM, winner of the Optical Publishing
Association's Best Consumer Product Award, has added a hypermedia
interface that makes it easy to find and download any type of program
you could want. The WordCruncher text retrieval program has also been
implemented to assist you insearching this vast collection.

This CD-ROM contains over 3700 fully functional shareware programs, each
with a detailed review. The 12th Edition has added over 300 new programs
and over 500 updates since the release of the 11th Edition. The
collection is always kept current and now contains over 70 megabytes of
Windows 3.0 and 3.1 applications, fonts, icons, games and wallpaper
files.

The range of software is phenomenal! There are huge assortments of
games, everything from adventure games with full SVGA and SoundBlaster
support to favorites like Klondike, Chess and Othello. Spreadsheets,
databases, wordprocessors and graphics programs are instantly available
and there are literally hundreds of unique and specialized programs that
will save you time and money. This amazing collection will help you get
a handle on all your business and home accounting and also teach your
children about zoology.

Each of the more than 3700 programs has a one-line description for quick
reference, Just pick one of the 13 software categories and a subcategory
to begin browsing for a program that interests you. You might choose the
Games Category, where you can pick from 12 subcatgories including
Adventure, Arcade, Cards and more. A mouse click (or keyboard stroke) on
the program title takes you to a detailed description of the program.
you can immediately download the software to your hard or floppy drive,
and in many cases view a screen shot.

You can find any program in the collection quickly and easily by using
the search button. When you are in a program category just type in the
title of the program and you will be taken to the description of that
program. The popular WordCruncher text retrieval program has been added
to allow searching every description for any word within that
description, not just in the title or keywords chosen by someone who
thinks differently than you do. The WordCruncher is ideal for finding
programs which perform a specific function, just try searching for
"split", "math" or "subtract". Or switch to the Disks section where you
will find an alphabetical list of all the programs which can be searched
by program title or disk number.

Everyone has their favorite programs and we're no exception. Our 44
favorite programs can be run immediately. No downloading is necessary,
all you do is click on the word "RUN" in the program description and
you'll be working or playing with top notch software right on the CD.

The power of hypermedia will allow you to try out more software than you
ever thought possible. We are sure that you will find a multitude of
programs to your liking on the P-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT PS/2 or compatible with 640K, DOS 3.3 or
higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM player. We
recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.










T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


T h e  P C - S I G   G a m e s    C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.

T h e   P C - S I G   W o r l d   o f   G a m e s   C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The new PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM contains over 550 of the best
shareware games, including 53 educational games for children and 57
Windows games. 430 of them can be played directly from the CD without
using your hard drive space.

This edition employs the award-winning HyperReader interface, allowing
easy searching and playing by using a mouse or the keyboard.

This CD is the first in a six-volume PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware
series. Each volume will include the programs from a section of the
PC-SIG collection and also the programs and text from the current issue
of Shareware Magazine. This CD contains the entire text from the
May/June issue of Shareware Magazine, featuring hardware reviews of
the Tandy Sensation and the Media Vision Pro 16 Multimedia System.
Software reviews included cover 58 new shareware releases, security,
educational, CD audio and PIM's. 159 of the programs mentioned in the
magazine are included and can be downloaded using the HyperReader
interface.

There are also 89 programs which were updated since the last issue of
Shareware Magazine, helping those of you who have purchased the 12th
edition of the PC-SIG Library keep on top of the everchanging world
of shareware.

As well, a description of every program in the PC-SIG Library can be
searched with the WordCruncher text retrieval program. This Games CD
continues the ten year PC-SIG tradition of providing quality programs
and information to help you find the best program for your purpose.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT/PS/2 or compatible computer with 640K,
DOS 3.3 or higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM
player. We recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

For Technical information: Call 408-730-9291 and ask for Technical
Support

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## VENDOR.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                     THE L.F.K. MESSIER OBSERVER'S GUIDE
                                 VERSION 1.0

          IS  AN ASTRONOMICAL  SHAREWARE PROGRAM  THAT IS DESIGNED  TO 
          SHOW  THE BUDDING SKYGAZER  WHERE TO FIND  SOME  OF THE MOST
          FAMOUS TELESCOPIC OBJECTS  IN THE UNIVERSE.  VERSION 1.0 HAS
          THE FIRST  25 MESSIER OBJECTS  SHOWN IN GRAPHICAL FORM  WITH
          EACH DISPLAY SHOWING THE CONSTELLATION IT APPEARS IN,  AS IT 
          WOULD BE SEEN BY THE NAKED EYE,  ALONG WITH  A  SMALL  ARROW  
          THAT SHOWS  THE MESSIER OBJECTS  APPROXIMATE POSITION  AMONG 
          THE STARS. THE OBJECTS COORDINATES, AS WELL AS, ITS DISCRIP- 
          TION,  TYPE OF OBJECT,  CONSTELLATION,  CATALOG NUMBER   AND  
          BRIGHTNESS  IS INCLUDED.   A SPECIAL INSET   IN EACH DISPLAY 
          SHOWS THE OBJECT AS IT WOULD APPEAR IN A TELESCOPE OR BINOC- 
          ULARS,  ALONG WITH A RECOMMENDED  MAGNIFICATION  FOR OBSERV- 
          ING. A VGA DISPLAY IS REQUIRED. A HARD DRIVE IS RECOMMENDED, 
          THOUGH NOT REQUIRED,  FOR V1.0.  THE OPERATOR CAN MOVE BACK- 
          WARD, FORWARD,  JUMP TO, SEARCH OR AUTOMATE  THE SCREEN DIS- 
          PLAYS.  A MOUSE IS SUPPORTED. A 286 ,OR BETTER, PROCESSOR IS 
          ALSO REQUIRED. THIS PROGRAM  IS A MUST  FOR ANY ASTRONOMICAL 
          LIBRARY. USE FILENAME  LFKSTARS.ZIP  FOR UPLOADING TO A BBS.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## README.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                     

                     THE L.F.K. MESSIER OBSERVER'S GUIDE
                      V1.0 - RELEASED NOVEMBER 17, 1992
                        

                                REQUIREMENTS

        A hard drive  and VGA monitor  are required for this program to
 run properly. It will run without a hard drive but the file loading is
 extremely slow. A 386 or 486 processor is recommended. A 286 will run,
 though much slower. 384K of memory is required and a mouse is support-
 ed. Also required is DOS 2.11 or later.  Make your backup copy as soon
 as possible.

                                 DISCLAIMER

        Unfortunately,  there is no way that I can guarantee the opera-
 tion of the program  and/or the running condition  of your system with
 regard to this program.  Operation is completely at your own risk.  If
 your computer  develops any operating problems while running this pro- 
 gram, stop running as soon as possible and consult someone with system 
 experience.

                                 BACKGROUND

        Those of us in the field of amateur astronomy are in great need
 of observer's software. There are programs that introduce the beginner
 to the sky and programs that give an indication where some of the most
 interesting objects are located but none of those programs really show
 or tell you what to expect when you look through a telescope. They try
 to sell you pretty pictures and some are rather spectacular but you'll
 never  see them  in your telescope  because they're photographs.  Long
 time exposures that can only be recorded on film, never seen visually.
        

                                 OPERATION 

        My slide show  changes all that.   I call this program  a slide
 show because that's what it really is. What you can do with my program
 is very limited, because you are confined  to the slides I've created.
 However, you do have three options...a SEARCH capability that lets you
 jump around  to any slide you want  by choosing a word  or phrase that
 allows the program  to find that particular  object of interest.  Then
 there's the quick  GOTO option  that allows you to jump to any Messier
 object directly  and the NEXT and BACK options  that will allow you to
 move forward or backward through the slides, one at a time.
        Each slide contains the "M" number, constellation, class of ob-
 ject, RA, Dec., and magnitude of the Messier object  displayed. If you 
 know the approximate Sidereal time, you can search the list of "M" ob- 
 jects using Right Ascension  or if your sky is limited  by city condi- 
 tions,  you can search on magnitude. If you can recognize a constella- 
 tion in the sky, search on the constellation name. Each new slide that 
 comes up  shows which "M" object  is in the constellation.  Be sure to 
 include any spaces  or special characters  in the search,  if it's re-
 quired. The search option can bring up all text and Messier screens.
        The telescope and binocular views  that I use to show magnified
 enlargements are limited  to four shades  so they're going to be  much
 more contrasty than the real view will show.  There is a trick you can
 do  to make the lighter shades of grey  a little more realistic.  Turn
 the contrast down on your monitor and those views will become a little
 closer to the real views.



*




        There isn't any way  to reorient the slides  so Southern hemis-
 phere amateurs are out of luck. Those of you South of the Equator have
 my apology. Maybe matters will improve for you guys at a latter date.

                             PLOTTING ACCURACY
        
        Everything  was drawn   by eyeball judgement,  even the Messier
 objects. My purpose for this program wasn't to produce a measuring de-
 vice. The only reason this program exists, in it's present form, is to
 entice the user to use his binoculars or telescope. In other words....
 get out  and observe the wonders of the universe.  I want this program
 to get you out of your armchair and out under the stars. If your tele-
 scope is equipped  with automated setting circles and computer driven,
 you won't need this program, except to find out what to expect in your
 eyepiece.  Perhaps, even that,  may provide the incentive to make you
 use your telescope.

                              MORE BACKGROUND

        I'm not a programmer.  The only portion I'm responsible for are
the slides. They were created  with a shareware program  called ANOTHER
PROGRAM.  The idea for this slide show  occured to me  about five years
ago when I was a great Commodore 64 fan.  It didn't  get off the ground
because the 64 graphics just weren't good enough.  After I got the com-
patible  and found a suitable  paint program  with a slide presentation 
capability, I decided  to try my hand  at the  MESSIER OBSERVER'S GUIDE
again. The slide show is supposed to have 110 messier objects.  Because
of the amount of time and space required to produce the show, I decided
to release V1.0 with only twenty-five Messier objects, just to find out
how the program  will be accepted  by the public. If you are interested 
in creating your own slide show  with ANOTHER PROGRAM  and want to con- 
tact the author, his name and address is:

                      Jeff Napier And Another Company
                               P.O. Box 298
                           Applegate, OR  97530

     NOTE: ANOTHER PROGRAM has been renamed THE MULTIMEDIA WORKSHOP


                            C: DRIVE PREPARATION

        The first thing you should do is create a directory on the hard
 drive with the MD command. I suggest using MD\MESSIER.  Then change to
 that directory with the command  CD\MESSIER.  Now you're ready to copy
 the disk files to the new directory. Put the  MESSIER OBSERVER'S GUIDE
 disk in the A drive and enter the command COPY A:*.* C:.  When all the 
 files are copied,  remove the disk from drive A  and start the program
 with the command GO. 
 
                                OTHER DRIVES
 
 If you have to run  from floppy drive A or B,  just enter GO after you 
 move to the correct drive.

                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               
 *                              
                               
                               
                               
                               
                               OTHER VERSIONS

        Version 1.0 contains twenty-five slides or "M" objects. This is
 the version I've made available as shareware at this time. It contains
 the first twenty-five objects.  Version 2.0,  which contains the first
 fifty "M" objects is nearly complete and will be available by the time
 you read this. Version 3.0 should be ready by June '93,  with seventy-
 five slides and version 4.0,  with possibly the entire one-hundred and
 ten Messier objects, by the end of '93.  Again, I emphasize,  that re-
 gistration ($39.95) will entitle you  to the latest version available.
 Any additional versions that become available  will have a postage and
 handling charge  of $5.00  per program copy  for registered owners.  A
 registration form is provided at the end of this file.

                             PRINTING THIS FILE

        If you're running from a hard drive, this file, with the regis-
 tration form, can be printed with the command:

                            COPY C:README.1ST PRN:

            If you're running from the A drive or B drive use:

                            COPY A:README.1ST PRN:
                                      or
                            COPY B:README.1ST PRN:

        The file PRINTME.BAT  is a batch file  that will start printing
 the README.1ST  documentation also.  If it's included  in the files on
 the disk, just enter the command: PRINTME

                         PRINTING FROM OTHER DRIVES

        If you are using  any other drive  than those  mentioned above, 
 just substitute the proper drive letter in the commands shown. Be sure
 that your printer  is set to the top of the page  before printing. The 
 print format  is set up for dot-matrix  machines of the  Epson variety
 with sixty-six lines per page.

                            THE SHAREWARE CONCEPT

        Shareware gives everyone searching for programs the opportunity
 to try out a program for very little cost. Vendors and bulletin boards
 have the right to distribute this program for very little profit, just
 so you can have a chance  to try it out.  If you like the program  and 
 continue to use it,  it's to your advantage  to support  the shareware
 authors by registering and contributing  to furthur the development of
 new programs.  If you don't  like the program,  pass it on  to someone 
 else who might find it useful.


                                MISCELLANEOUS

        You're welcome to submit  any comments, criticisms or ideas for
 improving the MESSIER OBSERVER'S GUIDE.  Write to me at 15674 Flanagan,
 Roseville, Michigan 48066, U.S.A.





*



                    LICENSE REGISTRATION AND ORDER FORM
                  FOR THE L.F.K. MESSIER OBSERVER'S GUIDE
              (Please print legibly and copy for your records)
               

             NAME________________________________________________
                 (This name will show on the title slide. Addi-
                 tional names should be placed on back of form)

            ADDRESS___________________________________ APT______

            CITY____________________________ STATE___ ZIP_______

            TELEPHONE NO.(_____)-_____-________ DATE ___/___/___

      From whom did you get your copy of This Messier Observer's Guide?
       ___ BBS ___ Friend ___ Store ___ Mail Order ___ Shareware vendor
         Please indicate name of store, catalog or shareware vendor  
      Name ______________________________ City________________State____

                         FLOPPY DISK SIZE (check one)  
                         
               ___ (360K) 5 1/4 in.     ___ (1.2M) 5 1/4 in.
               ___ (720K) 3 1/2 in.     ___ (1.4M) 3 1/2 in.

            Each purchased copy constitutes one license. Multiple 
            licenses for network operation or clubs are available 
            at reduced prices.  Distribution  with a product req-    
            uires a special license.
            
                      QUANTITY REQ'D ______ Copy(ies).

                       2 to 5 copies......discount 10%
                       6 to 10 copies.....discount 20%
                       11 or more.........discount 30%

                             PURCHASE AGREEMENT

        I hereby acknowledge that the program material which I have
        agreed to license, is copyrighted material  and will not be 
        reproduced for any other purpose than my own personal back-
        up and that one copy constitutes one license for one compu-
        ter and one user per computer.                     
        
                             Signed _______________________________
                                     (Owner or Purchasing Agent)

        THE ABOVE PURCHASE AGREEMENT  MUST BE SIGNED BY THE PURCHASER
        OR PURCHASING AGENT OF ANY COMPANY BUYING THE ABOVE MENTIONED
        SOFTWARE OR ALL CHECKS AND MONEY ORDERS  WILL BE RETURNED AND
        THE ORDER CANCELLED.

                    Sorry, no purchase orders or C.O.D.'s
           Your check must clear our bank before we mail your copy
         Allow about one to two weeks delivery, four weeks overseas
           PLEASE MAKE CHECK OR MONEY ORDER FOR $39.95 PER COPY TO:
               
                            LARRY F. KALINOWSKI

                                AND MAIL TO:

          LARRY F. KALINOWSKI, 15674 FLANAGAN, ROSEVILLE, MI 48066

*




























```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $19.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $39.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $5.00  ______
($5.00 is refundable with your first order)

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

The PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM                       $19.95  ______ 

The PC-SIG 12th Edition Library CD-ROM                 $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other CD-ROM just!                    $59.00  ______

The Essential Home & Business Collection CD-ROM        $39.00  ______  

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware on CD-ROM
(1 year subscription)                                  $99.00  ______


                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD: Call (800) 245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3896

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    README   TXT     12219   1-20-93   6:08p
    LFK      ZIP    218827   8-11-93   2:37p
    GO-STRT  DAT       541   6-01-93  11:07a
    SIGORDER TXT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2329   6-01-93   2:31p
    SHAREMAG TXT      1831   6-01-93   2:32p
    CDROM    TXT      8196   6-01-93   3:26p
           10 file(s)     306015 bytes
                           11264 bytes free
