---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3459)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3459/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3459"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M,

                1 2 t h E d i t i o n



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM, winner of the Optical Publishing
Association's Best Consumer Product Award, has added a hypermedia
interface that makes it easy to find and download any type of program
you could want. The WordCruncher text retrieval program has also been
implemented to assist you insearching this vast collection.

This CD-ROM contains over 3700 fully functional shareware programs, each
with a detailed review. The 12th Edition has added over 300 new programs
and over 500 updates since the release of the 11th Edition. The
collection is always kept current and now contains over 70 megabytes of
Windows 3.0 and 3.1 applications, fonts, icons, games and wallpaper
files.

The range of software is phenomenal! There are huge assortments of
games, everything from adventure games with full SVGA and SoundBlaster
support to favorites like Klondike, Chess and Othello. Spreadsheets,
databases, wordprocessors and graphics programs are instantly available
and there are literally hundreds of unique and specialized programs that
will save you time and money. This amazing collection will help you get
a handle on all your business and home accounting and also teach your
children about zoology.

Each of the more than 3700 programs has a one-line description for quick
reference, Just pick one of the 13 software categories and a subcategory
to begin browsing for a program that interests you. You might choose the
Games Category, where you can pick from 12 subcatgories including
Adventure, Arcade, Cards and more. A mouse click (or keyboard stroke) on
the program title takes you to a detailed description of the program.
you can immediately download the software to your hard or floppy drive,
and in many cases view a screen shot.

You can find any program in the collection quickly and easily by using
the search button. When you are in a program category just type in the
title of the program and you will be taken to the description of that
program. The popular WordCruncher text retrieval program has been added
to allow searching every description for any word within that
description, not just in the title or keywords chosen by someone who
thinks differently than you do. The WordCruncher is ideal for finding
programs which perform a specific function, just try searching for
"split", "math" or "subtract". Or switch to the Disks section where you
will find an alphabetical list of all the programs which can be searched
by program title or disk number.

Everyone has their favorite programs and we're no exception. Our 44
favorite programs can be run immediately. No downloading is necessary,
all you do is click on the word "RUN" in the program description and
you'll be working or playing with top notch software right on the CD.

The power of hypermedia will allow you to try out more software than you
ever thought possible. We are sure that you will find a multitude of
programs to your liking on the P-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT PS/2 or compatible with 640K, DOS 3.3 or
higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM player. We
recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.










T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


T h e  P C - S I G   G a m e s    C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.

T h e   P C - S I G   W o r l d   o f   G a m e s   C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The new PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM contains over 550 of the best
shareware games, including 53 educational games for children and 57
Windows games. 430 of them can be played directly from the CD without
using your hard drive space.

This edition employs the award-winning HyperReader interface, allowing
easy searching and playing by using a mouse or the keyboard.

This CD is the first in a six-volume PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware
series. Each volume will include the programs from a section of the
PC-SIG collection and also the programs and text from the current issue
of Shareware Magazine. This CD contains the entire text from the
May/June issue of Shareware Magazine, featuring hardware reviews of
the Tandy Sensation and the Media Vision Pro 16 Multimedia System.
Software reviews included cover 58 new shareware releases, security,
educational, CD audio and PIM's. 159 of the programs mentioned in the
magazine are included and can be downloaded using the HyperReader
interface.

There are also 89 programs which were updated since the last issue of
Shareware Magazine, helping those of you who have purchased the 12th
edition of the PC-SIG Library keep on top of the everchanging world
of shareware.

As well, a description of every program in the PC-SIG Library can be
searched with the WordCruncher text retrieval program. This Games CD
continues the ten year PC-SIG tradition of providing quality programs
and information to help you find the best program for your purpose.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT/PS/2 or compatible computer with 640K,
DOS 3.3 or higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM
player. We recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

For Technical information: Call 408-730-9291 and ask for Technical
Support

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $19.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $39.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $5.00  ______
($5.00 is refundable with your first order)

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

The PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM                       $19.95  ______ 

The PC-SIG 12th Edition Library CD-ROM                 $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other CD-ROM just!                    $59.00  ______

The Essential Home & Business Collection CD-ROM        $39.00  ______  

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware on CD-ROM
(1 year subscription)                                  $99.00  ______


                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD: Call (800) 245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

## HISTORY.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                            TinyHost Release History
                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
       
       V3.19            Jan. 5, 1993            Limited release
           Fixed a bug that prevented some internal modems from
       being initialized.


       V3.00            Apr. 25, 1992           Public release
           Added external protocols, operator page, shell-to-DOS,
       and log file support.

       
       V2.31            Dec. 5, 1991            Public release
           Fix for occasional bug where modem didn't hangup.

       
       V2.30            Nov. 13, 1991           Public release
           Fixed more modem incompatibilities.
           Enhanced message input, adding word wrap and editing. 
       Increased serial output speed.

       
       V2.05            Sep. 12, 1991           Limited release
           Fixed one-line message bug, repeating .BYE file, and erratic 
       backspace (destructive cursor).
           Released to contributors.
       
       
       V2.00            Aug. 19, 1991           Public release
           First version to include message support.
       

       V1.30            June 25, 1991           Public release
           Fixed a couple of insidious bugs! The first prevented 
       TinyHost from properly matching baud rates to the incoming call 
       resulting in garbage on the dial-in system. The second bug 
       prevented downloads from working on some system/modem 
       combinations.

       
       V1.25            Apr. 30, 1991           Public release
           Fixed a few bugs. One had permitted uploading or downloading 
       outside of the current directory. Another had required a 
       terminating space at the end of the Start-Up directory 
       descriptor.
           Changed View file to Type file. Enhanced eXpert mode. 
       Increased number of CRC retries for upload (TinyHost now gives 
       users more time to start their CRC upload). Added support for 
       COM3 and COM4. 

       
       V1.20            Mar. 9, 1991            Public release
           Fixed a bug that prevented display of all available sub-
       directories when using the List function.
           Added View file, eXpert mode, a Help screen, and an Info 
       screen.
       
       
       V1.10            Feb. 20, 1991           Limited release
           Fixed a few bugs, the most major of which was a midnight 
       rollover problem that prevented the system date from being bumped 
       at midnight. The most annoying bug fixed was the one that 
       displayed the Bulletin prior to each display of the Main Menu.
           Added the menu option to view the logon Bulletin.
           Released to contributors.

       
       V1.00            Feb. 1, 1991            Public release
           Initial release

```
{% endraw %}

## TINYHOST.DOC

{% raw %}
```











                                    TINYHOST

                                     V 3.00
                                 April 21, 1992


                    Copyright (C) 1991 by Bruce A. Krobusek












                   A small, personal, Host / BBS program for

                            IBM PC's and compatibles





                         Created by : Bruce A. Krobusek

                                      5950 King Hill Drive
                                      Farmington, NY  14425







                         CompuServe : 74106,1335
                              GEnie : B.KROBUSEK







       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       1.0   INTRODUCTION                                             1
        1.1   What is TinyHost?                                       1
        1.2   Why TinyHost?                                           2
        1.3   What is a SysOp?                                        2
        1.4   Quick Start                                             2
       
       2.0   INSTALLATION and SETUP                                   3
        2.1   Host System Requirements                                3
        2.2   Connecting System Requirements                          3
        2.3   Installation of TinyHost                                3
        2.4   Running TinyHost                                        4
        2.5   Modem Requirements                                      4
        2.6   Modifying the TINYHOST.CFG File                         5
         2.6.1   Descriptor Summary                                   5
         2.6.2   Communications Specific Descriptors                  6
                    BAUD                                              6
                    CARRIER                                           6
                    HANGUP                                            6
                    INIT                                              6
                    ISDN                                              7
                    PORT                                              7
                    RESET                                             7
                    RINGBACK                                          7
         2.6.3   General Descriptors                                  7
                    ACCESS                                            7
                    BOOT                                              8
                    CHAT                                              8
                    CHDIR                                             8
                    EVENT                                             8
                    EXTERNAL                                          8
                    LOG                                               8
                    OVERWRITE                                         8
                    SHELL                                             9
                    START                                             9
                    SYSOP                                             9
                    UPLOAD                                            9
                    USER                                              9
                    VIEW                                              9
        2.7   Setting up Access Levels                               10
        2.8   Customizable Display Files                             11
       
       3.0   OPERATION                                               12
        3.1   Ringback Operation                                     12
        3.2   TinyHost Operation                                     12
        3.3   File Oriented Commands                                 14
         3.3.1   File Transfers                                      14
         3.3.2   Changing Directories                                14
         3.3.3   List Directory                                      15
         3.3.4   Typing out a File                                   15
        3.4   Message Commands                                       15
         3.4.1   Reading Messages                                    15
         3.4.2   Entering a Message                                  16
         3.4.3   Editing a Message                                   16
         3.4.4   Killing (Deleting) Messages                         17
         3.4.5   Viewing User List                                   17
        3.5   Miscellaneous Commands                                 17
         3.5.1   Expert Mode                                         17
         3.5.2   Operator Page                                       18
         3.5.3   Shelling-to-DOS                                     18
         3.5.2   Executing a Warm Boot                               18
       
       
       
       
       
       
        3.6   Command Chaining                                       18
        3.7   User Inactivity and Disconnects                        19
       
       4.0   ADVANCED TOPICS                                         19
        4.1   General Notes                                          19
        4.2   ISDN Support                                           19
        4.3   External Protocols                                     20
        4.4   Shelling-to-DOS                                        21
                                                            
       5.0   TROUBLESHOOTING TIPS                                    21
        5.1   General Comments                                       22
        5.2   System Hang (Lockup)                                   22
        5.3   Error in User Account                                  22
        5.4   Modem Fails Reset                                      22
        5.5   Modem Fails Initialization                             23
        5.6   Phone Call Not Answered                                23
        5.7   Garbage After Connect                                  23
        5.8   Immediate Connect and Logoff                           23
        5.9   Garbage During Logon                                   23
        5.10  Added Message Not Displayed                            24
        5.11  TinyHost Doesn't Hangup                                24
       
       6.0   MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION                               24
        6.1   What is Shareware?                                     24
        6.2   Distributing TinyHost                                  25
        6.3   License Information                                    25
        6.4   Warranty Information                                   25
        6.5   Program Support                                        25
        6.6   New User Logons                                        26
        6.7   Message File Format                                    27
        6.8   Logging User Activity                                  27
        6.9   Using TinyHost with DesqView                           28
        6.10  Known Program Limits                                   28
        6.11  TinyHost Plus                                          28








       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       Brand and product names used throughout this document are
       trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders.

       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       1.0   INTRODUCTION

       1.1   What is TinyHost?

           TinyHost is a small, personal, Host / BBS program I have
       developed for IBM PC's and compatibles. It permits the transfer
       of files (using modems) between two computers without the
       requirements or overhead of other programs, particularly the
       full-fledged BBS programs.

           TinyHost has the following features:

           *  Operation can be via COM1, COM2, COM3, or COM4 using a
              Hayes compatible modem, and at rates of 300 to 38.4K bps.

           *  Supports XModem, XModem/CRC, and 1K-XModem (sometimes
              called YModem) as internal file transfer protocols.

           *  Up to 6 external file transfer protocols can be
              implemented.

           *  Supports up to 25 users with 11 security levels.

           *  Supports Ringback mode, which permits easy use of a voice
              phone line for data communications.

           *  A text file that resides on the host system can be viewed
              without downloading.

           *  Supports Personal and Public mail, and SysOp Comments.

           *  The actions of a remote user are echoed to the local
              screen.

           *  Unauthorized users are not able to logon to TinyHost.

           *  Using the security level feature, access can be restricted
              to one directory or the entire system can be available.

           *  An Operator Chat function exists to permit the local
              operator to chat on-line with the remote user.

           *  Shelling-to-DOS while connected remotely can be permitted.

           *  Support has been added for ISDN phone systems.

           *  Uploads can be restricted to a minimum security level.

           *  User activity can be logged to a file.

           *  TinyHost performs a self-check on execution to ensure
              that it has not been tampered with by, for instance, a
              virus.

           *  TinyHost is just that - tiny! The executable file is less
              than 90K, and the program only requires approximately
              140K of system RAM to run in.


                                     Page 1






           Your version of TinyHost should include the following files:

                THOSTxxx.EXE - TinyHost's executable. The xxx
                               refer to the version number of
                               the program
                TINYHOST.DOC - The TinyHost manual in printer
                               ready form (PRINT TINYHOST.DOC)
                TINYHOST.WEL - A sample welcome file
                TINYHOST.CFG - A sample configuration file
                THREMOTE.BAT - Sample batch file for Shell-to-DOS
                ZMXMIT.BAT   - Batch file for DSZ ZModem downloads
                ZMRCV.BAT    - Batch file for DSZ ZModem uploads
                REGISTER.FRM - Ready-to-print registration
                               form (PRINT REGISTER.FRM)
                HISTORY.TXT  - A file describing the release
                               history of TinyHost
                READ.ME      - A short text file describing
                               TinyHost
                IN-NODE.LST  - A text file with a list of all
                               current Intelec nodes (BBSes)


       1.2   Why TinyHost?

           Why did I create TinyHost? I needed a method to transfer
       files with friends without hassle. I also found that, since I use
       computers at work and at home, I was constantly leaving needed
       files at one location or another, which resulted in duplicated
       (or lost) effort.

           TinyHost is also ideal for the company that needs to keep in
       touch with remote employees, such as a sales force. With the file
       transfer and message capability, it is easy to provide a single
       transfer point for up-to-date information.

           TinyHost was written using Borland's C++, and consumes
       approximately 140K bytes of memory space when running. The small
       memory requirements, along with the small .EXE and other
       associated files, permits even floppy-disk based systems to be
       used for TinyHost operation.


       1.3   What is a SysOp?

           When the term SysOp is used in this manual it refers to the
       person who installs TinyHost on his computer (you), decides who
       can logon to his system, and what directories they are able to
       access.


       1.4   Quick Start

           It is recommended that the manual be read before trying to
       use TinyHost. However, it is always tempting to fire up a new
       program to see how it works. To print out the manual and
       registration form, simply enter PRINT TINYHOST.DOC and PRINT
       REGISTER.FRM at your DOS command prompt.


                                     Page 2






           Here is a summary of what must be changed (at a minimum) to
       get TinyHost to work.

           First, the following comments assume that the target system
       has a hard disk (Drive C), and that TinyHost will have its own
       directory. Create a directory called TINYHOST in the root (main)
       directory of the hard disk (C:\TINYHOST). Then create a sub-
       directory called BIN within the TINYHOST directory
       (C:\TINYHOST\BIN). Copy the THOSTxxx.EXE, TINYHOST.CFG, and
       TINYHOST.WEL files to the C:\TINYHOST\BIN subdirectory. Then move
       to this directory.

           Using an ASCII editor (even EDLIN will do), edit the
       TINYHOST.CFG file as follows: set the PORT descriptor to the
       serial port that the modem is connected to (1, 2, 3, or 4). Set
       the BAUD descriptor to the initial data rate of the modem,
       usually the fastest speed of the modem (valid values are 300,
       1200, 2400, 4800, 7600, 9600, 14400, 19200, or 38400). Finally,
       edit one of the default USER accounts (or create a new one) and
       create an account with your name, a password, and your security
       level (8 or 9 is adequate). Exit your editor and save all of
       these changes.

           To run TinyHost, simply enter THOSTxxx.EXE at the DOS prompt
       and, after a few seconds of setup, TinyHost should respond with
       its standby screen while it waits for a call.



       2.0   INSTALLATION and SETUP

       2.1   Host System Requirements

           TinyHost does not need an elaborate system in order to be
       used. A minimal system would consist of a single floppy drive,
       256K RAM, any type of display, a serial port, and a Hayes
       compatible modem. TinyHost supports COM1-4 using the normal
       hardware interrupts for each port (IRQ4 for COM1 and COM3; IRQ3
       for COM2 and COM4).


       2.2   Connecting System Requirements

           Any type of system and communications package should work
       with TinyHost. Communications requirements are 8 bits, no parity,
       and 1 stop bit.


       2.3   Installation of TinyHost

           It is recommended that TinyHost be installed in its own sub-
       directory. The directory that holds THOSTxxx.EXE is called the
       "execution directory", and it is here that the .CFG and other
       TinyHost specific files should be kept. Only two files are needed
       for operation - THOST.EXE and TINYHOST.CFG. Specific information
       as to the expected config file format follows in section 2.6.
       Please remember that user accounts MUST be created prior to using
       TinyHost - the program does not permit new user logon!

                                     Page 3






           For security reasons, it is STRONGLY suggested that the
       TinyHost execution directory be different from the start-up
       directory!


       2.4   Running TinyHost

           To start TinyHost, move to the execution directory and type
       "THOSTxxx", where the 'xxx' refers to the version number of
       TinyHost.


       2.5   Modem Requirements

           TinyHost expects a modem that supports the Hayes compatible
       command set and ASCII return codes. Because of the many different
       modem configurations (switch settings) there would be no point in
       attempting to provide a definitive setup for each. However, I can
       describe what TinyHost expects - refer to the manual for your
       modem to see how to make it fit these needs.

           Most modems support two types of result codes - numeric
       values (non-verbose) and ASCII strings (verbose). TinyHost
       expects to receive verbose result codes of the following types:

                OK - Informs the host that the modem has executed the
                command string successfully.

                RING - Informs the host that an incoming call has been
                detected.

                CONNECT - Denotes that the modem has made a 300 bps
                connection.

                CONNECT 1200 - A 1200 bps connection.

                CONNECT 2400 - A 2400 bps connection.

                CONNECT 4800 - A 4800 bps connection.

                CONNECT 7200 - A 7200 bps connection.

                CONNECT 9600 - A 9600 bps connection.

                CONNECT 14400 - A 14.4K bps connection.

                CONNECT 19200 - A 19.2K bps connection.

                CONNECT 38400 - A 38.4K bps connection

           Most modems support a switch setting that controls the state
       of the RS-232 Data Terminal Ready (DTR) handshake line. The
       switch setting can either force DTR TRUE at all times at the
       modem, or it can be set to permit the host computer to control
       DTR. If DTR is supported with the selected host computer and
       modem, then a modem hangup string will be unnecessary as TinyHost
       will toggle DTR when it wishes to drop carrier. However, if DTR
       is unavailable, then the modem hangup string must be defined (see

                                     Page 4






       HANGUP below) or TinyHost will be unable to terminate a call and
       will never drop carrier.


       2.6   Modifying the TINYHOST.CFG File

           When TinyHost is run it looks for TINYHOST.CFG in its
       execution directory. If it doesn't find it the program aborts. If
       the file is located, TinyHost reads in the information that it
       needs to run. The config file can be created or modified using a
       simple ASCII editor. If the editor used places an EOF character
       ($14) at the end of the file, make sure that at least one blank
       or commented line is at the end of the file.

           Each line in the config file can be up to 80 characters in
       length. At any point in the line a comment can be added by
       placing a pound sign (#) in the line - everything following it
       will be ignored.

           TinyHost requires specific information to run. To this end I
       have implemented what I call 'descriptors' which denote what type
       of information is specified on the line. The descriptor must
       begin in the first column of the line. The descriptor can be in
       either upper or lower case, it must be followed by a colon (:),
       and the descriptor must be spelled properly. If a required
       descriptor does not exist TinyHost will abort and display an
       error message. Descriptors can be defined in any order.

           The descriptors fall into two categories: communications
       specific and general. The following table summarizes each
       descriptor, with more detailed information in the following
       sections.

           Embedded spaces must be eliminated from any descriptor
       command line - even from the USER account fields. For instance, a
       USER descriptor account such as:

                        USER:Joe,De User,Password,8

       is invalid because of the embedded space in the user's last name.
       The valid way to set up this account would be:

                        USER:Joe,DeUser,Password,8

       The only exception to this is when adding an EXTERNAL descriptor
       for External Protocols.


       2.6.1   Descriptor Summary

               *BAUD      - Beginning baud (bps) rate
                CARRIER   - Monitor Carrier Detect select
                HANGUP    - Modem hangup string
               *INIT      - Modem initialization string
               +ISDN      - ISDN support select
               *PORT      - COM port to be used
                RESET     - Modem reset string
                RINGBACK  - Ringback mode select

                                     Page 5






                ACCESS    - Directory access security level
                BOOT      - Warm boot security level
                CHAT      - Chat mode default
                CHDIR     - Change directory security level
                EVENT     - Event time
               +EXTERNAL  - External Protocol definition
                LOG       - Log file enable
                OVERWRITE - File overwrite security level
               +SHELL     - DOS Shell security level
               *START     - TinyHost start-up directory
                SYSOP     - SysOp security level
                UPLOAD    - Upload security level
                VIEW      - View User List security level
               *USER      - User account information

                        * Required Descriptor
                        + Explained in Advanced Topics section


       2.6.2   Communications Specific Descriptors

           The following are the descriptors used in setting up TinyHost
       communications. Sample uses are given for each command.

           BAUD - This specifies the baud (bps) rate that the TinyHost
       serial port is to operate at. Legal values are 300, 1200, 2400,
       4800, 7200, 9600, 14400, 19200, and 38400. BAUD is required. In
       addition, the COM port baud rate may be locked at the specified
       value by adding ",LOCK" after the baud rate:

                        BAUD:19200,LOCK

       This has been added for use with error-correcting modems. When
       using this mode the proper command(s) must be added to the modem
       init string to lock the modem's serial port communications rate
       as well.

           CARRIER - Specifies whether or not the modem's Carrier Detect
       (CD) handshake should be monitored. A 'Y' or 'N' is expected.
       Monitoring the CD line permits TinyHost to see if a caller has
       been disconnected unexpectedly. CARRIER is optional.

       CARRIER:Y       # Monitor CD for disconnect

           HANGUP - Specifies the command string necessary to tell the
       modem to hang up the phone (go on hook). Refer to the section on
       modem requirements (2.5) to see if this string is necessary.
       HANGUP is Optional.

       HANGUP:ATH0     # Sample hangup (on hook) command

           INIT - This is the initialization string used to configure
       the modem. INIT is required. The string included with TinyHost
       includes some modem commands that are necessary for proper
       operation:




                                     Page 6






       INIT:ATE0M0Q0V1X2S0=0S2=43       # Sample init string

                E0 - Controls echo from the modem. Must be
                     set to 0, which is for no echo. Required.
                M0 - Controls the modem speaker. A value of
                     0 turns the speaker off. Optional.
                Q0 - Determines the kind of result codes sent
                     by the modem. Must be set for 0 (result
                     codes sent). Required.
                V1 - Determines the type of result codes sent.
                     Must be set to 1 which specifies English
                     (ASCII) codes are sent. Required.
                X2 - Selects extended modem result codes. Must
                     set to 2 or greater. Required.
                S0 - Determines the number of rings on which
                     the modem will answer the phone. Must be
                     set to 0. Required.
                S2 - Sets the value of the escape code for the
                     modem. Must be set to 43 ("+"). Required.

           ISDN - Specifies whether or not ISDN support should be used.
       A 'Y' or 'N' setting is expected. Refer to section 4.2 for
       further information regarding ISDN support.

       ISDN:Y           # Enable ISDN support

           PORT - This specifies the COM port that is to be used. Valid
       values are 1, 2, 3, or 4. PORT is required.

       PORT:1           # Use COM port 1

           RESET - Specifies the command string necessary to reset the
       modem. If RESET is specified then the modem must default to
       verbose text responses for proper TinyHost operation. RESET is
       optional.

       RESET:ATZ        # Modem reset string

           RINGBACK - Specifies whether or not TinyHost will operate in
       ringback mode. RINGBACK is not required - TinyHost will default
       to Ringback Enabled Mode.

       RINGBACK:Y       # Enable Ringback mode


       2.6.3   General Descriptors

           ACCESS - Can be used to specify a security level needed to
       access a directory. Up to 25 Access restrictions can be defined.
       If no access restrictions are specified then anyone with CHDIR
       permission can move to any system drive or directory. This could
       be troublesome when floppy drives are specified and they contain
       no diskettes. ACCESS expects a valid directory path (up to the
       DOS limit of 63 characters), followed by a comma, followed by a
       numeric value between 0 and 10 indicating a security level. A
       typical ACCESS descriptor would be:

       ACCESS:C:\TINYHOST\BIN,9

                                     Page 7






       which would limit access to the C:\TINYHOST\BIN directory to
       users with a security level of 9 or greater.

       A default access value can also be specified as follows:

       ACCESS:DEFAULT,9

       This means that any unspecified directories can only be accessed
       by users with a security level of 9 or greater. This will make
       securing a typical computer system much easier. Access settings
       are reloaded with the Warm Boot command.

           BOOT - Specifies the security level needed to perform a warm
       boot of the host system. This command can be used with Overwrite
       to update TinyHost's config file from a remote location. If Boot
       security is not specified then no user will have Boot permission.
       BOOT expects a numeric value between 0 and 10.

       BOOT:9           # Security level to execute a Warm Boot

           CHAT - Specifies the default setting for Chat Mode on
       TinyHost execution. A 'Y' enables Operator Chat; a 'N' disables
       it. CHAT is optional, and defaults to enabled.

       CHAT:Y           # Enable Operator Chat on start-up

           CHDIR - Specifies the minimum security level necessary to be
       able to move between directories of the system. If not specified
       then no security level will be permitted to change directories.
       CHDIR expects a numeric value between 0 and 10.

       CHDIR:3          # Sets Change Directory security to 3

       EVENT - Used to set a time for TinyHost to quit and return to
       DOS. The time must be entered in 24-hour (military) format (0000-
       2359, 0000 = midnight). All four digits must be entered. If a
       user is logged on when the Event time occurs, TinyHost will not
       exit until the user has logged off. The Event time is reset when
       executing a Warm Boot.

           EXTERNAL - Used to add an external protocol (such as ZModem)
       for use with TinyHost file transfers. Refer to Section 4.3 for
       further information. EXTERNAL is optional.

           LOG - Enables the logging of user activity to a file. LOG
       expects a 'Y' or 'N' setting. LOG is optional.

       LOG:Y            # Logs user activity to TINYHOST.LOG

           OVERWRITE - Specifies the security level needed for file
       overwrite permission. This can be used to update TinyHost's
       config file remotely when used with the Warm Boot command. If
       Overwrite security is not specified then no user will have
       Overwrite permission. OVERWRITE expects a numeric value between 0
       and 10.

       OVERWRITE:9      # Sets Overwrite security level


                                     Page 8






           SHELL - Used to set the security level for executing the
       Shell-to-DOS function. Refer to Section 4.4 for further
       information. SHELL is optional.

           START - Specifies the start-up directory for TinyHost. This
       is the directory that TinyHost moves to after its initialization
       is complete. This is also the directory that is available to the
       remote user that logs onto TinyHost so care should be taken that
       no sensitive files are available for download from this
       directory. START is required. A terminating backslash should not
       be used except when specifying a root directory that is being
       used for the start-up directory.

       START:C:\TINYHOST        # Directory at initial logon

           SYSOP -  Specifies the minimum security level necessary to
       perform SysOp level functions. SysOp functions include the
       ability to delete Public mail, and read and delete SysOp
       Comments. SYSOP expects a numeric value between 0 and 10. If
       it is not specified then remote SysOp privileges will be
       disabled.

       SYSOP:9          # Sets SysOp security level at 9

           UPLOAD - Specifies the minimum security needed to upload a
       file to TinyHost. UPLOAD expects a numeric value between 0 and
       10. If it is not specified then anyone can upload a file.

       UPLOAD:3         # Sets Upload security level to 3 or greater

           USER - Defines a user account. The line should contain (in
       order) the users first name (15 characters maximum), last name
       (30 characters), password (8 characters), and security level (2
       characters). Each item must be separated from the other by a
       comma (,). The security level should be specified by a numerical
       string ranging in value from 0 to 10, with 10 being the highest
       permissible security level. At least one, and up to 25, user
       accounts can be created. User accounts are reloaded when the
       Warm Boot command is executed.

       The following USER descriptor:

       USER:Joe,Shmoe,JOEUSER,7         # User with security of 7

       creates a user account for Joe Shmoe with the password of
       JOEUSER. Joe has a security level of 7.

           VIEW - Minimum security necessary to perform a View User List
       function. It may be desired to prevent lower level users from
       viewing the names of the TinyHost user base, and setting VIEW
       high enough will do this. View expects a numeric value between 0
       and 10. Not specifying a VIEW security level will result in all
       users being able to view the User List.

       VIEW:3           # Sets View Users security level at 3




                                     Page 9






       2.7   Setting up Access Levels

           The first thing to remember is that if a user's account
       hasn't been created in the TINYHOST.CFG file he will never be
       able to log on! (See Section 6.6 for a method to permit new users
       to log on).

           From there, things get a little more complicated (but not
       *too* complicated!). The SysOp will have to make decisions as to
       how much system access to give to the user accounts he creates.
       It is recommended that security level 10 be used to deny access
       to items such as the floppy drives, etc. when a hard disk based
       system is used. Trying to remotely access a floppy drive that
       does not have a diskette in it will cause TinyHost to hang.

           As noted above, a remote user can be restricted to the Start-
       Up directory for his uploads and downloads. This is accomplished
       by setting the CHDIR access to a higher level than that of the
       remote user.

           To limit access to other areas of the system, the ACCESS
       descriptor should be used. For instance, it is recommended that
       only the SysOp have remote access to the sub-directory that
       contains the TinyHost program, config file, and message files.
       Since there is no specific file upload or download restrictions,
       permitting access to these files (particularly the config file)
       would then give access to the entire user log.

           Entire disk drives (floppy, hard, and RAM) can be locked out
       by simply setting up the following ACCESS descriptor:

                             ACCESS:X:,10

       This would force a security level of 10 or greater to access
       drive X. As long as no user (SysOp included) has a security of
       10, then no access of drive X is possible. To lock out the root
       directory of a drive the descriptor would be changed to:

                             ACCESS:X:\,10

       Note the trailing backslash after the drive designation. This is
       the only time that the backslash is necessary. To lock out a
       particular directory:

                           ACCESS:C:\TINYHOST\BIN,9

       would permit access to the TINYHOST\BIN subdirectory by people
       with security levels of 9 or greater. Note that a trailing
       backslash should not be used when specifying a complete directory
       path.

           For example, suppose that one wanted to have two separate
       subdirectories, each with its own access level, within the
       TINYHOST directory. Assuming that one directory is called LEVEL7





                                    Page 10






       and the other is LEVEL8, the directory structure would look like
       this:

                        C:\ --- TINYHOST --+--- LEVEL7
                                           |
                                           +--- LEVEL8
                                           |
                                           +--- BIN

       Also, assume that the access levels within TINYHOST.CFG are set
       as follows:

                        ACCESS:C:\TINYHOST\BIN,9
                        ACCESS:C:\TINYHOST\LEVEL7,7
                        ACCESS:C:\TINYHOST\LEVEL8,8

       Users with a security level of 7 or higher would be permitted
       access to the LEVEL7 directory. A security level of 8 or more
       would be required to be able to move to the LEVEL8 directory. And
       a level of 9 or 10 (probably a SysOp) would have access to the
       BIN directory where all of the important TinyHost files are kept.

           By adding the following line:

                        ACCESS:DEFAULT,9

       the system is also further protected by setting a default access.
       This means that any directory not explicitly mentioned in an
       ACCESS descriptor can only be accessed by a user with a security
       level of 9 or greater. Specifying a default access level does not
       use one of the 25 standard ACCESS directory resources.

           The config file that has been included with the TinyHost
       package is set up to lockout floppy drives A and B. Overwrite,
       boot permission, default directory access, and SysOp security
       levels are set to that of the "SysOp", Sam Sysop.


       2.8   Customizable Display Files

           TinyHost permits the customizing of three display files by
       the SysOp that are shown at three different points within the
       program. TINYHOST.WEL is displayed after a connection has been
       made and before a user has logged on. TINYHOST.BUL is displayed
       after the logon process has been successfully completed.
       TINYHOST.BYE is shown after the user has logged off. A sample
       TINYHOST.WEL has been included on the TinyHost disk.

           Each file can have any number of lines, but each line should
       be no more than 80 characters long, and should be terminated with
       a carriage return and line feed. If the file is longer than 20
       lines TinyHost will pause at the 21st line (and every 21st line
       thereafter).

           These files should be placed in the same directory that
       THOSTxxx.EXE and TINYHOST.CFG reside (the execution directory).
       If any of the display files do not exist TinyHost will continue
       on its merry way!

                                    Page 11






       3.0   OPERATION

       3.1   Ringback Operation

           Ringback mode has been implemented to permit using the same
       phone line for both voice and data communications. In the case of
       the author, his computer (running TinyHost) shares a phone line
       with an answering machine. The use of ringback permits access to
       the computer while not affecting answering machine operation.

           To access TinyHost when ringback is implemented the caller
       must first dial into the computer and permit the phone to ring at
       least once (or permit the modem to detect at least one ring).
       Then the caller should hang up and wait at least 8 seconds before
       redialing the computer. As long as the redial is done within 1
       minute of the first call, TinyHost will answer the phone and data
       communications can begin. If more than 1 minute elapses then
       TinyHost resets and begins waiting for the first ring.


       3.2   TinyHost Operation

           TinyHost is a very easy program to use - if for no other
       reason than there aren't too many options with which to become
       confused! After the program is started a status screen is
       displayed on the local monitor. This information includes whether
       or not TinyHost is in ringback mode, and, if so, whether or not
       the program is waiting for the ringback. A local operator is also
       able to view the progress of a remote connection since all
       activity is echoed to the computer's monitor.

           After TinyHost has been started, and while it is waiting for
       a phone call, a status screen is displayed. Information such as
       Ringback status (Enabled or Disabled), Chat Enabled or Disabled,
       etc. is displayed. Pressing the Escape key ( <ESC> ) at this time
       will exit TinyHost. A local user can logon by pressing <ENTER>
       (or <RETURN>). The user will then be presented with the same
       prompts that a remote user gets. Pressing <RETURN> again
       (entering nothing for a First Name) will also cause an exit from
       TinyHost.

           Whether logging on locally or remotely, if logon is desired,
       the user should enter his first name, last name, and password as
       requested. It is permissible to string together any and all user
       information (for instance, entering first and last name,
       separated by a space, at the First Name prompt). It is not
       recommended to enter ones password in this fashion as the
       characters would be echoed to both the local and remote screens.
       The names and password inputs are not case sensitive. TinyHost
       does not permit retries when entering this information - if it is
       entered improperly TinyHost will deny access and will hang up.

           After the user successfully logs on, TinyHost checks to see
       if any personal messages exist for the user. If so, TinyHost
       beeps once, and displays a message that Personal Mail is waiting.
       A check is also made for Public mail and SysOp Comments (security
       level permitting), and notices are displayed if either forms of
       messages exist.

                                    Page 12






           The user will then be presented with the Main Menu, which
       displays the following command options. Either upper or lower
       case characters can be used:

               *D - Download a file from TinyHost to the user.

               *U - Upload a file to TinyHost from the user (if
                    permitted). If the user's security level
                    permits, file overwrite is possible with or
                    without backup.

               *C - If permitted, allows the user to move
                    between drives and directories of the system.

                L - List the contents of the present directory.

               *T - Types out (lists) a text file that resides on
                    the host system.

               *R - Read Personal or Public messages, or SysOp
                    comments (security level dependent).

               *E - Enter a Personal or Public message or SysOp
                    comment.

               *K - Kill Personal messages, or Private messages
                    or SysOp comments (security level dependent).

                V - View User List (security level dependent).

                S - Shell-to-DOS (security level dependent).

                I - Displays an informative screen about TinyHost.

                H - Display a Help screen ('?' can also be used).

                X - Toggles TinyHost's Expert mode on and off.
                    When Expert mode is ON the longer menu and
                    informative messages are suppressed.

                B - Re-display the logon Bulletin.

                G - Goodbye. Ends the TinyHost connection.

                O - Page the Operator (SysOp) for chatting.

                W - Log off and reload the access, user, and event
                    info from the config file. Subject to permission.
                    This option is *not* displayed on the screen
                    - it is a SysOp secret!!

                        * Command Chaining possible

       When using TinyHost, and reading this manual, text surrounded by
       angle brackets refer to names of keys, such as <F1> and <RETURN>.
       Characters with square brackets around them ( [T] or [C] ) refer
       to characters that, when entered, will execute that appropriate
       action. Characters with curly braces ( {N} or {Y} ) denote

                                    Page 13






       default actions (actions executed on pressing the <RETURN> key
       with no other keys being pressed).


       3.3   File Oriented Commands

       3.3.1   File Transfers

           TinyHost provides internal XModem, XModem/CRC, and 1K-Xmodem
       upload and download capability (1K-XModem protocol is sometimes
       known as YModem). All uploads and downloads take place from the
       current directory that the user is in. If CHDIR access has not
       been given, then file transfers take place from the Start-Up
       directory. Note that if a user logs on locally file transfers are
       not permitted (for obvious reasons).

           Through the use of External Protocols TinyHost is able to
       support other protocols such as ZModem. Refer to Section 4.3 for
       further information on how to implement these.

           Xmodem and XModem/CRC transfers appear as a single selection.
       TinyHost will attempt to begin transfers using CRC as this is a
       more reliable protocol than checksum. If CRC attempts are ignored
       then the system will fall back to checksum.

           When uploading a file to the TinyHost system, if the file
       already exists the system will typically prevent overwriting the
       existing file. The exception to this is if the OVERWRITE
       descriptor has been set and the caller's security level matches
       or is greater than that value. If this is the case then the user
       will have the option of overwriting the existing file. If
       overwrite is selected then the user will also be asked if a
       backup of the current file is desired. If a backup already exists
       then the current backup will be overwritten by the new backup (no
       backups of backups are made!).

           The overwrite option was added to permit updating TinyHost's
       config file from a remote location. Since new users cannot
       normally logon to TinyHost it is necessary to create an
       appropriate account. By using both the overwrite and warm boot
       capability the SysOp can download the existing config file,
       modify it, upload it and overwrite the existing config file, then
       tell TinyHost to load the new information.


       3.3.2   Changing Directories

           The Change Directory function of TinyHost acts much the same
       as the chdir (or cd) function from DOS. When Change Directory has
       been chosen the program will prompt for a new directory. The same
       type of input that is acceptable from a DOS command level is
       suitable for TinyHost - entering two dots (..) will take TinyHost
       to the next directory up the tree. Entering a complete path will
       take the user to the specified directory. All of this is, of
       course, assuming that the user has the necessary access to permit
       moving around the host system. To ensure security of the host
       system, TinyHost will return to the designated Start-Up directory
       after a user has logged off.

                                    Page 14






       3.3.3   List Directory

           This function displays the files that reside in the currently
       selected sub-directory of the system. First, the current
       directory path is displayed. Then, any additional sub-directories
       that exist are shown. Finally, the individual files in the
       current directory are displayed along with their sizes.


       3.3.4   Typing out a File

           This function permits typing out (listing) a file that
       resides on the TinyHost computer. It is strongly advised that
       this function be used only to view text (ASCII) files. Viewing
       binary files (those with .EXE, .COM, .ZIP, etc. extensions) can
       cause VERY unpredictable results!

           If the user has Expert Mode turned off when this feature is
       selected, a cautionary message similar to the above paragraph
       will be displayed, then the user will be prompted for a filename.
       If Expert Mode is enabled, then the user will be immediately
       prompted for the filename. If the file exists in the currently
       selected directory, then it will be displayed. TinyHost will
       pause every 21 lines and ask if it is to continue displaying the
       file. TinyHost will also automatically wrap the screen display if
       the line length exceeds 80 characters. TinyHost will keep track
       of added line feeds to be sure that the display is paused
       properly.

           The maximum line length that TinyHost will support (without a
       terminating carriage return or line feed) is 256 characters.


       3.4   Message Commands

       3.4.1   Reading Messages

           When a user logs onto TinyHost a notification is given if any
       Personal or Public mail is waiting, beeping once for Personal
       mail. If the user's security level is high enough, a notification
       of waiting SysOp Comments is also given. To read the messages,
       enter 'R' at the Main Menu prompt. A choice will then be given to
       read Personal ('P'), Public ('U'), or SysOp Comments ('C'). After
       the second choice is made the message(s) are then displayed. If
       more then one message is waiting, TinyHost pauses before
       continuing on to the next message. The very first line of the
       message notes who the message is from, and the time and date that
       the message was entered.

           If no mail is waiting of the selected type, a message
       reporting this is displayed. If the user does not have sufficient
       security to read SysOp Comments a notification is given and the
       Comments are not displayed.






                                    Page 15






       3.4.2   Entering a Message

           To Enter a message or SysOp Comment, enter an 'E' at the Main
       Menu prompt. The user will be prompted for the type of message to
       be left (Personal, Public, or SysOp Comment). After the selection
       is made, a few notes regarding message input are displayed along
       with a ruler line showing the length of a message line.

           If entering a Personal (Private) message, the user will be
       asked for the name of the person to send the message to. TinyHost
       will then check to be sure that such a person exists in its user
       base, so it is imperative that the user's name be spelled
       correctly. To find out who exists in the user base, and to find
       the proper spelling of names, a View User list can be done
       (within security limits).

           Up to 20 lines of 70 characters each may be entered. TinyHost
       will automatically wrap input to the next line.  When entering
       the message, do not put a period in the first (leftmost) column.
       This is how TinyHost distinguishes the end of a particular
       message (see Section 6.7). To end the message input, enter a
       blank line. At this point, the message can be edited, saved, or
       aborted.

          If the message is saved, TinyHost will automatically add the
       sending individual's name, and the time and date the message was
       entered, to the beginning of the message. The entire message will
       then be saved into the appropriate message file.


       3.4.3   Editing a Message

           After entering a message, and before saving it, the message
       can be edited using the following editing commands:

           [L]ist - List the entire message

           [I]nsert - inserts a line after the line number specified.
                Entering a blank line will abort the insert process.
                If the message length is already 20 lines then an
                insert will not be permitted.

           [D]elete - deletes the specified line

           [E]dit - permits editing the specified line. After entering
                the line number the user is asked to enter the source
                string to be changed. TinyHost will do an exact, case
                sensitive search and if a match is found then the user
                is prompted for the string to be substituted. If the
                resulting line exceeds 70 characters then the end of
                the line will be truncated to fit.

           When editing the message is complete, the message can either
       be [S]aved or [A]borted.





                                    Page 16






       3.4.4   Killing (Deleting) Messages

           TinyHost will retain all messages until they are deleted.
       This is accomplished by entering a 'K' at the Main Menu prompt.
       The user will then be prompted for the type of mail to delete -
       Personal, Public, or SysOp Comments. The user is then asked if
       all messages are truly to be deleted, and if the response is Yes,
       then the entire mail file is deleted.

           If the user's security is not high enough to delete Public
       Mail or SysOp Comments, an appropriate message will be displayed
       and the user will be returned to the Main Menu.

           It must be stressed that when Killing Messages, ALL such
       messages are deleted! There is presently no way, for instance, to
       just delete one Private message out of the group. However, since
       a DOS file delete is done, the file should be recoverable using
       an easily available file recovery utility.

           Non-deleted messages will hang around forever (or until the
       next disk crash!). Personal messages, though, will make a minor
       nuisance of themselves by beeping every time the user logs on.
       This should help remind users to purge their old messages.

           See Section 6.7 for information on editing the message files
       off-line using an ASCII editor.


       3.4.5   Viewing User List

           To help users when entering Personal mail, a View User List
       function has been added. Entering a 'V' at the Main Menu prompt
       will display the list of users currently defined in TinyHost's
       user base. Both the first and last name of the individuals are
       displayed.

           The View User List function can be restricted to higher
       security levels simply by setting the VIEW descriptor value high
       enough. This may be desired when TinyHost is open to new callers
       (see Section 6.6), or when different security levels are
       implemented. If the VIEW descriptor is not found in the
       TINYHOST.CFG file, any users will be able to see the user list.


       3.5   Miscellaneous Commands

       3.5.1   Expert Mode

           Entering an 'X' at TinyHost's Main Menu will toggle the
       Expert User Mode on and off. When OFF, full menus and informative
       displays are given throughout TinyHost. When ON, these displays
       are suppressed and only a line showing the valid character inputs
       is displayed.






                                    Page 17






       3.5.2   Operator Page

           Entering an 'O' will page the operator for online chat.
       This is assuming, of course, that the SysOp has enabled this
       function. If Chatting is enabled, TinyHost will beep every two
       seconds for 30 seconds to get the SysOp's attention. Any key
       pressed during this time by the remote user will cancel the page.

           On the local screen, TinyHost will display the name of the
       user who initiated the page. If the SysOp wishes to chat then the
       <F1> key should be pressed on the local keyboard. The remote user
       and SysOp can then chat back and forth simply by typing their
       messages. TinyHost will automatically wrap the input to the
       following line. To end the Chat, the SysOp must press <F1> again.

           While TinyHost is waiting for a call, the SysOp may enable or
       disable the Chat function by pressing <F1>. The status of Chat is
       shown on the local screen.


       3.5.3   Shelling-to-DOS

           Entering an 'S' will select the Shell-to-DOS function.
       Depending upon the implementation the remote user will then be
       taken to the DOS prompt of the TinyHost machine. To return to
       TinyHost, the remote user must type 'EXIT' and hit <RETURN>.

           Whether or not a remote user can execute this command is set
       (in part) by the SHELL descriptor security level. There is no
       security requirement when executing this command from the local
       TinyHost keyboard.

           Because of the complexity of implementing this command at the
       TinyHost level, further information can be found in Section 4.4
       under Advanced Topics.


       3.5.2   Executing a Warm Boot

           As described above, the warm boot option has been included to
       permit the SysOp to modify some settings remotely by updating and
       reloading the config file. TinyHost normally only reads its
       config file on initial start-up. Entering a 'W' will result in
       TinyHost logging off (same as if Goodbye had been selected). The
       program will then proceed to re-load its config file and retrieve
       ACCESS, USER, and EVENT info - everything else in its
       configuration (INIT, RESET, etc.) will remain untouched.


       3.6   Command Chaining

           Many commands can be used with Command Chaining. This is the
       process of entering two pieces of information at the Main Menu
       prompt, with a space separating the items. For instance, to type
       out the file FOOBAR.TXT from the current directory, the command
       line would be:

                                T FOOBAR.TXT <return>

                                    Page 18






       Command chaining can be used in or out of Expert Mode, and
       currently works with file and message commands. Section 3.2 lists
       the available TinyHost commands, and the ones where command
       chaining can be used are marked with asterisks ('*').


       3.7   User Inactivity and Disconnects

           TinyHost monitors the COM port for keyboard activity to be
       sure that a user is still out there and awake. If no keyboard
       activity is seen for an extended period of time (at least 2
       minutes) TinyHost will hang up and recycle itself. The total
       length of time that TinyHost will wait depend upon what menu the
       user is in when the inactive period begins. A 5 minute delay is
       set when Viewing a file; a 2 minute delay exists at the Main Menu
       prompt. This activity monitor can also handle disconnects that
       occur in the middle of a logon session.

           In addition, if the CARRIER descriptor has been set to 'Y',
       TinyHost will monitor the status of the Carrier Detect (CD)
       handshake from the modem. If at any time the CD handshake is
       removed (denoting a broken connection), TinyHost will recycle
       itself.



       4.0   ADVANCED TOPICS

       4.1   General Notes

           The features covered in this section are NOT for the faint of
       heart!! In order to implement these properly a good knowledge of
       DOS, and of the system and environment that TinyHost is running
       in, is essential!


       4.2   ISDN Support

           ISDN is a digital only phone system that is starting to
       become more widespread. With ISDN there is no modem, no init
       string, no result codes, and a fixed baud rate. All activity is
       controlled using the serial ports handshake lines. To enable ISDN
       support, the following descriptor must be added to TinyHost's
       config file:

       ISDN:Y                   # Enable ISDN support

           When ISDN is used, RINGBACK cannot be set to Yes, and a
       modem HANGUP string cannot be defined. It is also suggested that
       baud rate locking (for example,  BAUD:9600,LOCK ) be used.

           When in ISDN mode, the DTR line is not asserted, as it
       is when in a modem application. TinyHost waits until the RING
       handshake becomes active and then asserts DTR. TinyHost then waits
       for DCD to be asserted to signify that a connection has been
       established. To break the connection, TinyHost simply drops the
       DTR handshake.


                                    Page 19






       4.3   External Protocols

           For those that want to use protocols other than XModem (such
       as ZModem), TinyHost supports the use of external protocols. For
       instance, the author uses DSZ (by Chuck Forsberg) to implement
       ZModem file transfers. Up to 6 external protocols may be defined.

           The descriptor format for defining an External protocol is:

       EXTERNAL:<menu name>,<transmit batch>,<receive batch>

       for example::

       EXTERNAL:Zmodem,ZMXMIT,ZMRCV     # Sample for ZModem

           <menu name> - The name of the protocol. This string may be up
       to 30 characters in length, and may include embedded spaces. This
       string will be displayed to the user at the Protocol Select menu
       within TinyHost - in this case, "ZModem".

           <transmit batch> - The name of the batch file used to invoke
       the external protocol when sending a file from TinyHost to the
       User (TinyHost Download). This batch file must reside in the
       TinyHost execution directory. In the above example, ZMXMIT will
       have TinyHost look for a batch file named ZMXMIT.BAT in the
       execution directory for downloads.

           <receive batch> - The name of the batch file used to invoke
       the external protocol when receiving a file from the User
       (TinyHost Upload). This batch file must reside in the TinyHost
       execution directory. In the above example, the name of the upload
       batch file is ZMRCV.BAT.

           The actual external protocol executable file must be in a
       directory pointed to by the DOS path command. The .BAT file
       extension should not be added when putting the filenames in the
       descriptor field.

           When an external protocol is selected, TinyHost starts a
       secondary command processor (usually COMMAND.COM). TinyHost also
       passes some necessary parameters to the batch file. These are, in
       order: 1) COM port number, 2) Port speed (baud rate), and 3) the
       filename. The COM port and baud rate are passed as ASCII
       characters.

           Two sample batch files have been included. These can be used
       with DSZ to implement ZModem transfers within TinyHost. For
       instance, the batch file for a TinyHost Upload would be:

                        DSZ port %1 speed %2 rz %3

       The batch file for a ZModem Download would be:

                        DSZ port %1 speed %2 sz %3





                                    Page 20






       4.4   Shelling-to-DOS

           The SHELL descriptor permits setting the minimum security
       level necessary for accessing this command remotely. However, a
       lot of behind-the-scenes effort has to be done to make this work.

           In addition to the security level requirement, there must be
       a THREMOTE.BAT file in the *exact* directory the user is in when
       trying to shell out. There is a reason for this: Some SysOps may
       not want their users dropping to DOS in their machine, but they
       might want to make custom menus, programs, etc. available for
       their use. By customizing a THREMOTE batch file for the area the
       user is in, different functions can be implemented using the same
       command.

           When executing the Shell command, TinyHost passes two pieces
       of data to the batch file (much like it does when using an
       external protocol). First, the COM port number is passed, then
       the Baud rate. Both are passed as ASCII character strings.

           A sample THREMOTE.BAT file has been included with TinyHost.
       This file shows how a shell-to-DOS function can be implemented
       using the DOS CTTY command. When returning from calling this
       batch file, TinyHost will automatically reset the CTTY value to
       CON (the standard console).

           Caution should be taken when using the CTTY command to
       implement a DOS Shell. Depending upon circumstances that are
       unclear, when at the DOS level via remote a backspace character
       can sometimes cause the host system to go berserk. Unlimited
       space characters appear to be sent, and a Control-C may or may
       not work in halting them.

           When using CTTY, it is recommend that caution be used when
       executing other programs remotely. Direct video writes cannot be
       supported using this function, and system lockup may be
       experienced. When finished with DOS perations, entering "EXIT" at
       the DOS prompt will return to TinyHost. It is suggested that the
       user return to the directory the Shell command was called from.
       Failing to do so could cause the system to lock up.

           Also, if one were to hang up or suffer a broken connection
       while in DOS, there is no way for TinyHost to recover and the
       system would stay that way unless manually reset. A good solution
       here is to use a utility called WATCHDOG (or something similar)
       which automatically reboots the computer should the carrier be
       lost.

           One final note - there is no check for appropriate security
       level for the Shell-to-DOS function when a user has logged on
       from the local TinyHost keyboard.



       




                                    Page 21






       5.0   TROUBLESHOOTING TIPS

       5.1   General Comments

           Although I have done my best to make TinyHost an easy-to-use
       program, it is difficult (if not impossible) to take all of the
       different port and modem combinations into account. Here are some
       suggestions as to causes and cures of some common problems in
       getting TinyHost to work.

           A helpful debug feature has been incorporated into TinyHost.
       By adding the DBUG descriptor to a line in the TINYHOST.CFG file,
       modem response information will be displayed on the local
       monitor's screen. This can sometimes help pinpoint the problem
       area.


       5.2   System Hang (Lockup)

           This failure is when the computer that is to be used locks up
       as soon as TinyHost is executed. Chances are, the last sign of
       life was the "Initialization..." message being displayed on the
       monitor screen.

           This is usually due to a problem with the selected serial
       port. It is possible that the specified serial port does not
       exist in the computer. When trying to use COM3 or COM4, it is
       also possible that an unsupported system interrupt is being used.
       TinyHost expects to use IRQ4 for COM3; IRQ3 for COM4.

           TinyHost can also hang the system if a remote user attempts
       to access a floppy drive that does not have a diskette in it.


       5.3   Error in User Account

           This message will be displayed during the initialization
       process.

           This will be caused by an embedded space somewhere within the
       user account information. It could also be caused by an invalid
       security level.


       5.4   Modem Fails Reset

           This will occur as TinyHost is being initialized. The program
       attempts to reset the modem, and has received no response. The
       expected response is an "OK" string.

           A number of causes are possible. Make sure that the modem is
       connected to the specified serial port, and that the default bps
       rate being specified with the BAUD descriptor is one that the
       modem's serial port can support. The modem could also be set (via
       DIP switches or non-volatile RAM) to default to no result codes
       or to numeric instead of verbose. The simplest solution is to
       remove the RESET descriptor from the TINYHOST.CFG file.


                                    Page 22






       5.5   Modem Fails Initialization

           TinyHost displays a "Modem Initialization Failure" string
       when this happens.

           Again, a number of causes are possible. Make sure that the
       modem is connected to the specified serial port, and that a valid
       BAUD rate setting is being used. The initialization string also
       must have the Q0 and V1 modem commands set as shown (Q0 forces
       the display of result codes; V1 specifies that result codes as
       character strings rather than numbers).


       5.6   Phone Call Not Answered

           If TinyHost does not answer the incoming call, make sure that
       the phone line is properly plugged into the modem. Also, make
       sure that the RINGBACK descriptor is set to 'N' (No).


       5.7   Garbage After Connect

           This problem will only be seen by the remote caller, and will
       appear as all garbage characters being received instead of the
       expected Welcome file (if used) or First Name prompt.

           This is probably caused by different bps rate settings
       between the TinyHost system and the remote caller. This can be
       due to the Data Rate of the modem being locked to a particular
       value by an initialization command (usually available only with
       error correcting or MNP modems). Try adding (or removing) the
       LOCK command of the BAUD descriptor.

           If occasional incorrect characters are received, the problem
       is probably due to a noisy phone connection between the two
       systems.


       5.8   Immediate Connect and Logoff

           Although difficult to describe, this is when TinyHost answers
       the phone, displays the requests for First Name, Last Name, and
       Password, then logs off without the remote user doing anything.
       The number of times each prompt is displayed can vary.
       Essentially, the remote user is never given the chance to logon.

           This is probably caused by an improper echo command setting
       in the Modem Init string. Command Echo must be set to off by
       using the E0 setting in the init string.


       5.9   Garbage During Logon

           Here, TinyHost answered the call, established communications,
       but the remote user sees occasional garbage echoed during the
       logon process, and he is not permitted access to the system.



                                    Page 23






           The most likely cause is the remote users communications
       package is incorrectly set. TinyHost expects the connecting
       caller to be using 8-bits, no parity, and 1 stop bit.


       5.10   Added Message Not Displayed

           This type of error usually occurs when a message is created
       off-line, using an ASCII text editor. What happens is that a
       message added via TinyHost does not appear to be added (appended)
       to the original message file.

           This is caused by the ASCII editor used to create the initial
       text file adding an End-Of-Text (EOT or EOF, $1A) to the file
       when it is saved. When adding a message via TinyHost, the new
       message is simply added on to the existing file. The EOT
       character is never erased or overwritten, and when it is seen
       TinyHost assumes that the entire message file has been read. This
       character can be removed from the message file using a hex
       editor, and this problem can be avoided by ensuring that the
       ASCII editor used will not add the EOT character.


       5.11   TinyHost Doesn't Hangup

           If TinyHost doesn't hangup (disconnect) after a call is
       complete, the problem is probably due to a lack of a modem hangup
       string specification in the TINYHOST.CFG file. Refer to Section
       2.5 (Modem Requirements) for further information



       6.0   MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION

       6.1   What is Shareware?

           TinyHost is being released as Shareware, which means that you
       can try the program out *before* you buy it and make sure that it
       will do what you want. If you find it of use, you are requested
       to mail a contribution ($25 suggested) to the author to support
       the continued development of this and other products. Please send
       a check or money order (U.S. funds only) to:

                                Bruce A. Krobusek
                                5950 King Hill Drive
                                Farmington, NY  14425

           For your $25 you will receive the latest registered version
       of TinyHost on either 5 1/4 (360K) or 3 1/2 (720K) media (please
       specify). The registered version of TinyHost has the same
       functionality as the Shareware version, but the text requesting
       contributions will be removed. The start-up and exit delays will
       also be removed. You will also receive a registered version of
       the next major release of TinyHost, and notifications of future
       upgrades.

           A ready-to-print registration form has been included with
       TinyHost. Simply print out REGISTER.FRM using the DOS PRINT

                                    Page 24






       command, fill it out, and return it with your check or money
       order.

           For those interested, quantity discounts are available.
       Custom versions of TinyHost can also be created. Contact the
       author for more information.


       6.2   Distributing TinyHost

           Even though TinyHost is Shareware it remains a
       copyrighted program. As such, it may be freely copied and
       distributed under the following guidelines:

           * The author retains the sole right to sell the program
             for a profit.
           * The author grants users the right to copy and distribute
             TinyHost so long as all program and documentation files
             remain unaltered and are distributed as a group.
           * The program may not be bundled with any other hardware
             or software without the permission of the author.
           * Recognized users groups may charge a maximum of $5 for
             duplication and/or distribution of TinyHost.

           Registered users are requested to distribute only the
       Shareware (Unregistered) version of TinyHost. There is no
       difference in functionality, but the Shareware version reminds
       the user to register.


       6.3   License Information

           Unregistered users are granted a 60-day evaluation period.
       After that time, they are expected to either register TinyHost or
       cease using it.

           Registered users may use TinyHost on more than one machine,
       as long as there is no possibility of more than one copy being in
       use at a time. Site licenses are available.


       6.4   Warranty Information

           The author (Bruce A. Krobusek) disclaims all warranties
       expressed or implied as to the quality and performance of this
       program (TinyHost). The author will not be held liable for any
       lost profits, lost savings, or any other direct, indirect,
       incidental, or consequential damages resulting from the use of
       this program. Your use of this program constitutes your agreement
       to this disclaimer and your release of the author from any form
       of liability or litigation.


       6.5   Program Support

           Now that the legal technicalities are out of the way, let me
       state that I have done my best to ensure that TinyHost is error
       free. However, that is not to imply that one might not find

                                    Page 25






       errors that have been missed. If a problem should be found,
       contact me through one of the avenues mentioned below and I will
       do my best to correct it. Naturally, the more information that
       can be supplied as to the nature of the bug the better chance I
       will have of finding and squashing it!

           I am also interested in receiving any comments or suggestions
       regarding TinyHost. Although I have a few ideas for upcoming
       enhancements, I am always interested in hearing what other people
       think of TinyHost.

           Here are some methods that can be used in contacting me,
       starting with the most preferable:

           Micro Science BBS - (716) 594-1804  USR Dual Standard /
                V.32bis. This Bulletin Board is located in
                Rochester, NY, and is run by Larry Helber. The
                latest version of TinyHost will always be available
                as a free download. Do a file search (Z) and scan
                for TINYHOST, or download THOST*.ZIP. There is also
                a TinyHost support conference where messages can be
                left and received. No BBS registration is required
                for TinyHost download or support.

           Intelec Network - This is a national BBS network
                (Micro Science is a member). There are nodes all
                over the U.S. and Canada, with a few starting to
                appear in other nations. I will monitor the
                Communications, Shareware, and Central conferences
                for any mail addressed to me. Please try to spell
                my name correctly or I may not be notified of a
                message. The latest Intelec node (BBS) list has
                been included as IN-NODE.LST. There is probably
                a BBS that carries Intelec near you.

           CompuServe Informational Services - My account number
                is 74106,1335. I usually logon daily.

           GEnie - General Electric Network for Information Exchange
                My account name is B.KROBUSEK. I usually logon
                once a week or so.

           Internet - via CompuServe:
                        74106.1335@compuserve.com

           Home Address - 5950 King Hill Drive
                          Farmington, NY  14425


       6.6   New User Logons

           Although TinyHost does not permit a new user to register,
       there is a way to permit new users to logon. To do this, a user
       account can be created, with a password, and this information can
       be displayed as part of the TinyHost Welcome screen. For
       instance, an account could be created with the name New User, the
       password GUEST, and a security level of 0 (zero). A message could
       be left as part of the TINYHOST.WEL screen stating that new users

                                    Page 26






       should use this account to logon. These users would then be able
       to access the files in the Start-Up directory, read Public mail,
       and could leave any type of mail message. If the security levels
       were set properly (the settings in the included TINYHOST.CFG file
       would be fine), then the new user would not be able to do
       anything else. This would be an easy way of leaving the TinyHost
       system partially accessible to, for instance, the customers of a
       company.


       6.7   Message File Format

           The TinyHost message files are standard ASCII text files.
       Each file has the extension ".TH". Files for Personal mail
       consist of filename made up of the user's first and last names.
       The user's first name is used, with characters from the last name
       being added to pad the filename for up to 8 characters (the DOS
       limit). For instance, if the user's name is Joe Fabeets, then his
       personal mail file will have the filename JOEFABEE.TH. Public
       mail is stored in PUBLIC.TH; SysOp Comments are stored in
       COMMENTS.TH.

           Although TinyHost limits message input to 70 characters per
       line and 20 lines, this is strictly a program limit. A message
       file created off-line does not have to adhere to these
       restrictions (although it is suggested that line length be kept
       under 80 characters). When creating a message off-line, each line
       should be terminated in a carriage return / line feed pair. The
       end of the message should be marked with a period ('.') in the
       first column of the terminating line, followed again by a
       carriage return / line feed. This terminating period is not
       displayed to the reader, but is used by TinyHost to determine the
       end of the message.

           By editing the Public Message file offline, the SysOp is able
       to keep desired messages in the file while leaving room for new
       messages.

           It is important to note that the text editor used should
       *not* add an End-of Text character (EOT or EOF, $1A) to the
       message file. If it does then messages entered from within
       TinyHost will not be added to that file.


       6.8   Logging User Activity

           When the LOG feature is enable, TinyHost will keep track of
       user activity in a text file called TINYHOST.LOG. This file will
       be stored in the execution directory (with THOST.EXE, the config
       file, etc.). Monitored activity includes all user logins
       (including failures and wrong passwords), all files uploaded and
       downloaded, and the times of logon and logoff. While the call is
       in progress, information is stored in a file called TINYHOST.TMP.
       After the user has logged off, this file is copied to the normal
       log file. The file format is such that the most recent activity
       is available at the beginning of the file.



                                    Page 27






       6.9   Using TinyHost with DesqView

           The author has had great success using TinyHost within a
       DesqView window. Although the normal memory requirements are 140K
       or so, more should be made available depending upon the TinyHost
       features used. External protocols, another copy of COMMAND.COM
       (when shelling to DOS), etc. all take up extra memory. Adjust the
       DV memory allocation accordingly.

           Also, when trying to shell to DOS from within a DV window, it
       may be necessary to set the "Manage Printer Contention" option to
       YES. I have no idea why - but it works.


       6.10   Known Program Limits

           A few areas exist where there are some known limitations:

           First, I am somewhat confused as to the flexibility of
       1K-XModem file transfers. The implementation within TinyHost
       supports both CRC and checksum error detection, yet in the
       testing that I have done I have never been able to implement a
       1K-XModem checksum file transfer because the communications
       package I was using did not support it. As TinyHost is currently
       implemented it will attempt to start a CRC upload, and will retry
       for a total of 30 seconds. If the upload does not begin in that
       time it will fall back to attempting a checksum upload. However,
       after TinyHost falls back to checksum it will not return to a CRC
       mode of transfer. The upshot of all of this is that if it takes
       more than 30 seconds to initiate a 1K-XModem upload using CRC
       error checking then errors will occur and the upload will never
       begin (assuming that your communications package does not support
       1K checksum). If this happens simply abort the upload and begin
       again.

           Secondly, file transfer errors have been observed when using
       the 1K-XModem protocol at 1200 bps with Windows 3.0 and having
       TinyHost running as a background task. The host machine was a
       16MHz 386SX with 4Mb of RAM. These errors have *not* been seen
       running TinyHost within DesqView at rates of up to 2400 bps. It
       is entirely possible that by judicious time-slice selection
       within Windows that this problem could be eliminated.


       6.11   TinyHost Plus

           Work is progressing on an extended version of TinyHost called
       TinyHost Plus. TinyHost Plus has been created to permit adding
       many advanced features that may be of interest, yet keep the
       original TinyHost program the way it is - small and simple. This
       is not to say that TinyHost will not be improved - just that it
       will not be burdened with specialty functions.

           The first addition to TinyHost Plus will be the capability of
       dialing another TinyHost system and transferring up to 5 files,
       all at a predetermined time, without operator assistance. Those
       interested should contact the author for further information.
       TinyHost Plus will also be released as Shareware.

                                    Page 28


```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3459

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    TINYHOST ZIP     84285   8-04-93   3:57p
    GO-STRT  DAT       541   6-01-93  11:07a
    SIGORDER TXT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2329   6-01-93   2:31p
    SHAREMAG TXT      1831   6-01-93   2:32p
    CDROM    TXT      8196   6-01-93   3:26p
            9 file(s)     159254 bytes
                          157696 bytes free
