---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #4111)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/4000-4999/DISK4111/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #4111"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M,

                1 2 t h E d i t i o n



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM, winner of the Optical Publishing
Association's Best Consumer Product Award, has added a hypermedia
interface that makes it easy to find and download any type of program
you could want. The WordCruncher text retrieval program has also been
implemented to assist you insearching this vast collection.

This CD-ROM contains over 3700 fully functional shareware programs, each
with a detailed review. The 12th Edition has added over 300 new programs
and over 500 updates since the release of the 11th Edition. The
collection is always kept current and now contains over 70 megabytes of
Windows 3.0 and 3.1 applications, fonts, icons, games and wallpaper
files.

The range of software is phenomenal! There are huge assortments of
games, everything from adventure games with full SVGA and SoundBlaster
support to favorites like Klondike, Chess and Othello. Spreadsheets,
databases, wordprocessors and graphics programs are instantly available
and there are literally hundreds of unique and specialized programs that
will save you time and money. This amazing collection will help you get
a handle on all your business and home accounting and also teach your
children about zoology.

Each of the more than 3700 programs has a one-line description for quick
reference, Just pick one of the 13 software categories and a subcategory
to begin browsing for a program that interests you. You might choose the
Games Category, where you can pick from 12 subcatgories including
Adventure, Arcade, Cards and more. A mouse click (or keyboard stroke) on
the program title takes you to a detailed description of the program.
you can immediately download the software to your hard or floppy drive,
and in many cases view a screen shot.

You can find any program in the collection quickly and easily by using
the search button. When you are in a program category just type in the
title of the program and you will be taken to the description of that
program. The popular WordCruncher text retrieval program has been added
to allow searching every description for any word within that
description, not just in the title or keywords chosen by someone who
thinks differently than you do. The WordCruncher is ideal for finding
programs which perform a specific function, just try searching for
"split", "math" or "subtract". Or switch to the Disks section where you
will find an alphabetical list of all the programs which can be searched
by program title or disk number.

Everyone has their favorite programs and we're no exception. Our 44
favorite programs can be run immediately. No downloading is necessary,
all you do is click on the word "RUN" in the program description and
you'll be working or playing with top notch software right on the CD.

The power of hypermedia will allow you to try out more software than you
ever thought possible. We are sure that you will find a multitude of
programs to your liking on the P-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT PS/2 or compatible with 640K, DOS 3.3 or
higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM player. We
recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.










T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


T h e  P C - S I G   G a m e s    C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.

T h e   P C - S I G   W o r l d   o f   G a m e s   C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The new PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM contains over 550 of the best
shareware games, including 53 educational games for children and 57
Windows games. 430 of them can be played directly from the CD without
using your hard drive space.

This edition employs the award-winning HyperReader interface, allowing
easy searching and playing by using a mouse or the keyboard.

This CD is the first in a six-volume PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware
series. Each volume will include the programs from a section of the
PC-SIG collection and also the programs and text from the current issue
of Shareware Magazine. This CD contains the entire text from the
May/June issue of Shareware Magazine, featuring hardware reviews of
the Tandy Sensation and the Media Vision Pro 16 Multimedia System.
Software reviews included cover 58 new shareware releases, security,
educational, CD audio and PIM's. 159 of the programs mentioned in the
magazine are included and can be downloaded using the HyperReader
interface.

There are also 89 programs which were updated since the last issue of
Shareware Magazine, helping those of you who have purchased the 12th
edition of the PC-SIG Library keep on top of the everchanging world
of shareware.

As well, a description of every program in the PC-SIG Library can be
searched with the WordCruncher text retrieval program. This Games CD
continues the ten year PC-SIG tradition of providing quality programs
and information to help you find the best program for your purpose.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT/PS/2 or compatible computer with 640K,
DOS 3.3 or higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM
player. We recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

For Technical information: Call 408-730-9291 and ask for Technical
Support

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $19.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $39.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $5.00  ______
($5.00 is refundable with your first order)

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

The PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM                       $19.95  ______ 

The PC-SIG World of Windows CD-ROM                     $19.95  ______

The PC-SIG 12th Edition Library CD-ROM                 $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other CD-ROM just!                    $59.00  ______

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware on CD-ROM
(1 year subscription)                                  $99.00  ______


                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD: Call (800) 245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

## ASP.DOC

{% raw %}
```
  ============================================================================
                                                   _______
                                              ____|__     |               (R)
                                           --|       |    |-------------------
            Epic MegaGames                   |   ____|__  |  Association of
         10406 Holbrook Drive                |  |       |_|  Shareware
          Potomac, MD 20854                  |__|   o   |    Professionals
                                           -----|   |   |---------------------
                                                |___|___|    MEMBER


  OMBUDSMAN STATEMENT:

      This program is produced by a member of the Association of Shareware
  Professionals (ASP).  ASP wants to make sure that the shareware principal
  works for you.  If you are unable to resolve a shareware-related problem
  with an ASP member by contacting the member directly,  ASP may be able to
  help.  The ASP Ombudsman can help you resolve a dispute with an ASP member,
  but does not provide technical support for members' products.  Please write
  to the ASP Ombudsman at 545 Grover Road,  Muskogeon, MI 49442-9427 or send
  a Compuserve message via CompuServe Mail to ASP Ombudsman 70007,3536.


  WHAT IS SHAREWARE?

       Shareware is a method of software distribution that gives users a
  chance to try software before buying it.  If you try a Shareware
  program and continue using it,  you are expected to register. By
  registering,  you will receive many benefits and you will also encourage
  authors to develop more high quality Shareware software.


  USER SUPPORT

       Unlimited mail support is available for all registered and
  unregistered users.  If you have any questions or you experience
  any problems with this game,  write for a quick response.

       A hint sheet is also available upon request (free!)

  ===========================================================================

```
{% endraw %}

## FOREIGN.DOC

{% raw %}
```

               Information about foreign orders:

If we don't have a distributor in your area,  you can order by credit
card (Mastercard or Visa) by calling 314-256-3130 (orders only).

                          -or-

Go to your local post office and get an international postal money order
(made out in U.S. funds) and mail it with your order.  We can ship anywhere
in the world,  but you need to add $2 extra postage & handling.

                          -or-

Many of our products can be ordered online at Compuserve -- just GO SE.

                          -or-

FOR FASTEST RESULTS -- Contact one of our distributors:

=============================================================================

In the U.S.A.:
   Epic MegaGames
   10406 Holbrook Drive
   Potomac, MD 20854 U.S.A.

   Or call 1-800-972-7434 (Orders only)

=============================================================================

In Canada:
   Distant Markets
   Box 1149
   194 - 3803 Calgary Trail
   Edmonton, AB Canada T6J 5M8

   Phone: 1-800-661-7383 (We also speak French)  Fax: 1-403-435-0928

   Canadian Pricing:  (Prices include shipping and tax)
      Jill of the Jungle           $42 Canadian
      Drum Blaster                 $42
      Castle of the Winds          $35
      Original ZZT (All 4 volumes) $35
      Super ZZT  (All three games) $35
      Both Original & Super ZZT    $50

=============================================================================

In the U.K.:

   Nildram Software
   26 Stanley Hill Avenue
   Amersham
   Bucks
   HP7 9BD

   Phone/Fax: 0494-432342    BBS: 0494-431861

   Cheques should be made payable to Nildram Software,  or use your MasterCard
   (Access) or VISA.  Registered users are entitled to lifetime support and
   will be kept informed of all new releases from Epic MegaGames.

   UK Prices:
      Drum Blaster  19.95 pounds + VAT
      Jill          19.95 pounds + VAT
      Castle        17.95 pounds + VAT
      ZZT           15.00 pounds + VAT
      Super ZZT     18.00 pounds + VAT
      ZZT & SZZT    25.00 pounds + VAT

=============================================================================

In Germany:

   CDV-Software
   Ettlingerstr. 5
   7500 Karlsuhe 1
   Germany

   Phone: 0721-22295  Fax: 0721-21314  Compuserve: 100022,274

   German pricing:

      Jill of the Jungle     DM 59,
      Drum Blaster           DM 59,
      Castle of the Winds    DM 49,

=============================================================================

In Australia:

   BUDGETWARE
   PO Box 496
   Newtown NSW 2042
   AUSTRALIA

   Phone (02) 519-4233  Fax (02) 516-4236

   Australian pricing: (Includes shipping)

      Jill of the Jungle    $49 (Australian)
      Drum Blaster          $49
      Castle of the Winds   $49

   Payment can be made by Cheque, Money Order, Bankcard, Mastercard, or Visa.

=============================================================================

```
{% endraw %}

## ORDER.DOC

{% raw %}
```
             -- Thanks for ordering from Epic MegaGames --

  Run PRINTME to print this then mail it in,  or call our toll-free ordering
            line at 1-800-972-7434 (this number is for orders only!)

========================== Please Rush Me: ==============================

Original ZZT:  [ ] Town  [ ] Caves  [ ] Dungeons  [ ] City
                        Price: $8 each or $24 for all four ... _________

Super ZZT: [ ] Monster Zoo  [ ] Lost Forest  [ ] Proving Grounds
                             $12 each or $24 for all three ... _________

               Special Price. Order all 4 ZZT volumes plus
                  all three Super ZZT Volumes for just $35 ... _________

[ ]  Jill of the Jungle -- 3 huge volumes of 256-color animated
     arcade action! (Requires CGA/EGA/VGA graphics, 80286 or
     faster, and hard disk) ($30)............................. __________

[ ]  Drum Blaster (requires Sound Blaster card, VGA, 640K)
     plus all 4 add-on sound effect & music disks ($30)....... __________

[ ]  Castle of the Winds -- Fantasy role-playing for Microsoft
     Windows 3.0 or later (Two immense game worlds) ($25)..... __________

               Shipping & Handling (Foreign add $2 extra)..... __$2.00___

                       Maryland residents MUST add 5% tax..... __________

                                                Total enclosed __________

IMPORTANT! Circle disk size:  5.25   AND   High Density
                               3.5         Low Density

CPU: 8088  286  386  486    Graphics:  CGA  EGA  VGA  Mono

Is this your first order from Epic MegaGames?   YES   NO

          Name: _______________________________________________

       Address: _______________________________________________

  City, ST Zip: ___________________________________ Phone: _________________

Payment by:  [ ] Check   [ ] Money order  [ ] Mastercard  [ ] Visa

Card # ________________  Exp. Date: ________  Signature: ___________________

As an Epic MegaGames customer, you get a 30-day complete satisfaction guarantee,
fast shipping,  and up-to-date news of all our new releases.  Thank you!

_________________________                                              /-----\
                                                                       |STAMP|
_________________________                                              \-----/

_________________________






                            Epic MegaGames
                            10406 Holbrook Drive
                            Potomac, MD 20854

```
{% endraw %}

## SUPERZ.DOC

{% raw %}
```
  ===========================================================================
                        SUPER ZZT -- Instructions

  TO START:  Just type SUPERZ [enter]

  TO INSTALL ON A HARD DISK:  simply make a new directory on your hard disk
  and copy the Super ZZT game files there.  Use these commands:
     MD C:\SUPERZ
     COPY A:*.* C:\SUPERZ
     C:
     CD \SUPERZ

  PLAYING:  Everything is self-explanatory (really.)  If you experience
  problems playing with a joystick or mouse,  restart the game and use the
  keyboard.

  HINTS:  If you are truely stuck,  write to us for hints (but don't call.)
  The Epic MegaGames crew will guide you through,  also we'll send a free
  hint sheet and ads for our latest games.

  REQUIREMENTS:  You need at least 512k of memory and DOS version 3.0 or
  later.  This is not compatible with many Tandy 1000 computers,  sorry.

  MONOCHROME USERS:  This game looks awful in mono,  but it does work!

  HAVING PROBLEMS?  If you're getting weird lockups or "Runtime Errors",
  try booting from a floppy disk,  with no TSR programs in memory.

  REGISTRATION:  Run CATALOG for an overview of our products and PRINTME for
  an order form.  The ZZT series is priced very reasonably and we try
  very hard to satisfy our customers, so check us out!

  Thanks,  and enjoy.  -- Tim Sweeney,  author of Super ZZT.
  ===========================================================================
```
{% endraw %}

## SYSOP.DOC

{% raw %}
```
  ============================================================================
  SYSOPS:

       You have permission to distribute ZZT electronically as long as no
  modifications are made to any included files.  You are free to put
  additional files in the archive if you wish.

       If you run a major 24-hour bulletin board,  we encourage you to get
  in touch.  We're signing up a limited number of BBSs across the country
  to be official Epic MegaGames release points -- for all of our upcomming
  games (there will be many!)  Please send a written request describing
  your bulletin board (number of phone lines, number of users, sign-up or
  hourly rates, etc.)

  Thanks -- Tim Sweeney, Epic MegaGames, 10406 Holbrook Drive, Potomac MD 20854
  ============================================================================

```
{% endraw %}

## VENDOR.DOC

{% raw %}
```
  ===========================================================================
  SHAREWARE VENDORS:

       You have permission to distribute this software to users as long as:
  (1) you don't modify these files;  (2) you don't charge more than $9;
  and (3) you make it clear that this software is shareware.  If these
  conditions are met,  you do not need our written permission.  But please
  do write so we can put you on the mailing list!

  As of 11/91 we have three design teams working on games,  so you'll be
  hearing from us a lot in the future!  Thanks for promoting shareware,
  and if there is anything we can do for you,  we'll be glad to help.

  Who carries our products?  The list is immense:  Public Brand Software,
  Software Excitement,  Public Software Library,  Reasonable Solutions,
  PC-SIG,  and over 500 others worldwide!


                     Here is a description:
  ===========================================================================
  SUPER ZZT version 1.1 -- Hot New Release from Epic MegaGames
  Category: Arcade-Adventure
  Requires: At least 512k, DOS 3.0 or later, any kind of monitor.
  Authors:  Tim Sweeney & Allen Pilgrim

   This is the highly demanded sequel to the popular ZZT series.  Journey thru
 the giant seven-level Monster Zoo,  shooting monsters and solving puzzles
 every step of the way!  This game boasts an ultra-colorful four-way scrolling
 playfield and hints at the press of a button,  plus all of the diabolical
 tricks that made the original ZZT famous.

   Super ZZT a new release from Epic MegaGames,  a game publisher founded
 on the success of the ZZT series.  Keep your eyes on these guys,  because
 they have many more great games on the way!
 ===========================================================================

```
{% endraw %}

## ASP.DOC

{% raw %}
```
  ============================================================================
                                                   _______
                                              ____|__     |               (R)
                                           --|       |    |-------------------
            Epic MegaGames                   |   ____|__  |  Association of
         10406 Holbrook Drive                |  |       |_|  Shareware
          Potomac, MD 20854                  |__|   o   |    Professionals
                                           -----|   |   |---------------------
                                                |___|___|    MEMBER


  OMBUDSMAN STATEMENT:

      This program is produced by a member of the Association of Shareware
  Professionals (ASP).  ASP wants to make sure that the shareware principal
  works for you.  If you are unable to resolve a shareware-related problem
  with an ASP member by contacting the member directly,  ASP may be able to
  help.  The ASP Ombudsman can help you resolve a dispute with an ASP member,
  but does not provide technical support for members' products.  Please write
  to the ASP Ombudsman at 545 Grover Road,  Muskogeon, MI 49442-9427 or send
  a Compuserve message via CompuServe Mail to ASP Ombudsman 70007,3536.


  WHAT IS SHAREWARE?

       Shareware is a method of software distribution that gives users a
  chance to try software before buying it.  If you try a Shareware
  program and continue using it,  you are expected to register. By
  registering,  you will receive many benefits and you will also encourage
  authors to develop more high quality Shareware software.


  USER SUPPORT

       Unlimited mail support is available for all registered and
  unregistered users.  If you have any questions or you experience
  any problems with this game,  write for a quick response.

       A hint sheet is also available upon request (free!)

  ===========================================================================

```
{% endraw %}

## FOREIGN.DOC

{% raw %}
```

               Information about foreign orders:

If we don't have a distributor in your area,  you can order by credit
card (Mastercard or Visa) by calling 314-256-3130 (orders only).

                          -or-

Go to your local post office and get an international postal money order
(made out in U.S. funds) and mail it with your order.  We can ship anywhere
in the world,  but you need to add $2 extra postage & handling.

                          -or-

Many of our products can be ordered online at Compuserve -- just GO SE.

                          -or-

FOR FASTEST RESULTS -- Contact one of our distributors:

=============================================================================

In the U.S.A.:
   Epic MegaGames
   10406 Holbrook Drive
   Potomac, MD 20854 U.S.A.

   Or call 1-800-972-7434 (Orders only)

=============================================================================

In Canada:
   Distant Markets
   Box 1149
   194 - 3803 Calgary Trail
   Edmonton, AB Canada T6J 5M8

   Phone: 1-800-661-7383 (We also speak French)  Fax: 1-403-435-0928

   Canadian Pricing:  (Prices include shipping and tax)
      Jill of the Jungle           $42 Canadian
      Drum Blaster                 $42
      Castle of the Winds          $35
      Original ZZT (All 4 volumes) $35
      Super ZZT  (All three games) $35
      Both Original & Super ZZT    $50

=============================================================================

In the U.K.:

   Nildram Software
   26 Stanley Hill Avenue
   Amersham
   Bucks
   HP7 9BD

   Phone/Fax: 0494-432342    BBS: 0494-431861

   Cheques should be made payable to Nildram Software,  or use your MasterCard
   (Access) or VISA.  Registered users are entitled to lifetime support and
   will be kept informed of all new releases from Epic MegaGames.

   UK Prices:
      Drum Blaster  19.95 pounds + VAT
      Jill          19.95 pounds + VAT
      Castle        17.95 pounds + VAT
      ZZT           15.00 pounds + VAT
      Super ZZT     18.00 pounds + VAT
      ZZT & SZZT    25.00 pounds + VAT

=============================================================================

In Germany:

   CDV-Software
   Ettlingerstr. 5
   7500 Karlsuhe 1
   Germany

   Phone: 0721-22295  Fax: 0721-21314  Compuserve: 100022,274

   German pricing:

      Jill of the Jungle     DM 59,
      Drum Blaster           DM 59,
      Castle of the Winds    DM 49,

=============================================================================

In Australia:

   BUDGETWARE
   PO Box 496
   Newtown NSW 2042
   AUSTRALIA

   Phone (02) 519-4233  Fax (02) 516-4236

   Australian pricing: (Includes shipping)

      Jill of the Jungle    $49 (Australian)
      Drum Blaster          $49
      Castle of the Winds   $49

   Payment can be made by Cheque, Money Order, Bankcard, Mastercard, or Visa.

=============================================================================

```
{% endraw %}

## HINTS.DOC

{% raw %}
```

                                Town of ZZT Hints

                   by David Fernau  (The Official ZZT Advisor)

     INTRODUCTION.

          Before we get into the serious stuff,  let me tell you a little
     story.  I've been into computers for the last 10-15 years and have
     seen my share of PD or Shareware games.  Until I ran across ZZT on
     Delphi, I had never been so taken with a game.  Even KROZ,  which is a
     fine game, got boring after a while.

          So what made me go nuts over ZZT?  First,  it is a very well-
     written game.  Second,  Town of ZZT had me sitting up nights trying to
     figure out the puzzles,  where other games are more of a "shoot
     everything that moves" type.  Third, very few games allow you to
     create your own puzzles;  even fewer give you a chance to have your
     creations published.

          Anyway, I registered for ZZT almost immediately.  On the comment
     card that Tim sends out with the registered copy of the program,  I
     wrote him a note asking if he had ever thought of a complete hint file
     for ZZT.  The rest is history.  By the way, Tim...  Can I be listed as
     "staff" now?  [Sure thing,  Dave.  You are now the Official ZZT
     Advisor.  -TIM]

     GENERAL HINTS.

          ZZT has a great save-game feature...  Use it often.  That way, if
     you die or get stuck, you can go back to your last saved game instead
     of starting over.

          Try anything!  In finishing Town of ZZT,  I did some things that
     I didn't expect to have to do.  Sometimes the strange thing is the
     right thing.  The worst that can happen is death,  and...  You did
     save your game,  didn't you?

          Save torches and ammo as much as possible...  You never know when
     you'll need them.

          If you're really stuck,  quit for a while.  No sense getting more
     and more frustrated.  Two puzzles in Town (The Rube Board and The
     Throne Room) took me almost a week to solve...  A week EACH, that is!

     SPECIFIC ROOM HINTS.

          Note:  Not all rooms have identifiable names.  I have made every
     attempt to identify the rooms clearly.

          Opening Room:  Choose a path, any path. One way of dying is as
                         good as another.

                Armory:  Why bother the Vendor when the key to the stock
                         room is right here?  There are even two ways to
                         get it.

                  Bank:  The combination is hidden somewhere in the game.
                         A friend in a bad spot can help you find it.

        Path to Castle:  Better go around the back way to get the key.
                         Just don't get shot.

        Outside Castle:  Can't kill the troll,  may as well bribe him.

         Inside Castle:  Grab those torches,  the labyrinth is dark!

             Labyrinth:  Yellow gets Blue, Blue gets White, White gets
                         Purple. Too bad it isn't really that easy.

     Room of Annoyance:  There are two ways in;  use them both. And don't
                         bump your nose too many times.

         Dragon's Lair:  Feel free to re-arrange the yellow bombs.

           Throne Room:  You'll need all 3 keys. You have to block a door
                         open to get the sceptre.

       The Three Lakes:  Put your running shoes on!

        The Rube Board:  MOST of the hints in the board are correct...
                         Which ones are wrong?

              Bug Maze:  Walk softly and carry a big can of bug spray.

        Outside Prison:  The guard will let you in, just ask! When you get
                         out, right first!

         Inside Prison:  Move quick... you only have a short time! Don't
                         forget the key!  And convicts sometimes have
                         interesting stories to tell.

     "Here It Is" Room:  Better save first, this one is deadly.  Try moving
                         the bombs.

       Sliding Puzzle:   Don't block off something you might need later.
                         You'll need to use the small passage on the right
                         side,  too.

           Think Fast:   Better shoot fast,  too!

         Path by Cave:   Nothing much exciting here.

           The Forest:   Use the Energizers wisely.

          More Forest:   Be glad there's a shortcut on the way out.

       House of Blues:   Sing the Blues Man a song. Watch the notes!

            The Mixer:   The surgeon general has determined that entering
                         The Mixer while the lions are alive is definitely
                         hazardous to your health.

        Inside Palace:   Go right first.

            Last Room:   (Dark room in the palace)  Don't go rushing in...
                         Get the boulders out of the way first.
     OTHER HINTS.

          If you're really stuck,  you can write to Tim or you can contact
     me for better hints. I can be found on Odyssey as Whytetygr,  on
     Prodigy as HHSC43A, or you can write me at:

                    David Fernau
                    P.O. Box 18251
                    San Jose, CA  95158
                    ATTN: ZZT Hints!

     [TIM'S NOTE:  Thanks for the hint file,  Dave.]
```
{% endraw %}

## NEWS.DOC

{% raw %}
```



                                   ZZT News!

                            To Accompany Version 3.0

                                 By Tim Sweeney

            If you are new to ZZT,  you are probably wondering what this
       game is about.  ZZT is  a game of exploration,  problem  solving,
       and (of course) shooting things into smithereens.  This NEWS file
       is here to let you know what's happening over here in ZZT land.

            GAME HINTS:   Thanks go to David Fernau,   who took the time
       to  write an excellent hint file for ZZT.   He did a great job of
       giving clues  without actually revealing the solutions.  Read the
       file HINTS to see...  Thanks, David!

            HIGH SCORES:  Many people have sent in their high scores and
       some  even beat my  best score  (I'm  better at programming these
       things than playing  them!)  To  get the maximum possible  score,
       you need to find all of the gems and destroy every creature.

            CONGRATULATIONS go to Jan Hoag, the first gamer to  complete
       all 4  games in the  ZZT series.   Amazingly,  she  solved Caves,
       Dungeons,  and City  inside of  a week!   As of  today,   only 11
       people have completed the whole series.

            ZZT  GAME  DESIGN CONTEST:   Only  a  few entries  have been
       received so  far,  though  many more  people have written  to say
       they are working on games with the Game Editor.  Read the contest
       rules by  running ZZT (it's part of the  "ABOUT ZZT" scroll.)  If
       you create a game  board with ZZT and send it  in before December
       1, 1991,  you have an excellent chance of winning a prize!

            COMMENTS FROM USERS:   Hundreds of  users have sent  letters
       over  the  last few  months and  hundreds  more have  ordered the
       entire  ZZT series.   Nobody has complained  yet,  and  many have
       written back with thanks.

            At $26.95 for ALL FOUR games in  the series,  ZZT has to  be
       one of the best bargains around.  At a software store,  you would
       probably  pay  $26.95 for  EACH  game or  over  $100 total.   For
       quality entertainment,   send in  your order today!   (Print  the
       file ORDER that is on this disk.)

            BUGS:  This  version has  been tested thoroughly,   but  I'm
       sure some bugs  have slipped past the  testing crew.  If  you run
       into a problem with the game,  please get in touch!

            ZZT is spreading:   You can  find ZZT on CompuServe,  GEnie,
       Exec-PC  and thousands  (!) of  other bulletin boards  across the
       country,   thanks to  the many users who  have been uploading the
       game.  (One rather  avid gamer uploaded the game to  no less than
       50 boards in Boston!)  Good work.  Keep distributing ZZT!

ZZT has become so popular on Prodigy that a support & discussion forum has
started!  Look up "ZZT" in the Prodigy directory (Hint: it's the last entry!)

Call the Misty Mountain BBS,  which is THE place to be to exchange new
game worlds and talk about your ZZT exploits.  They also have all the newest
releases from Epic MegaGames, so give 'em a call: 1-609-985-3215 (New Jersey)
```
{% endraw %}

## ORDER.DOC

{% raw %}
```
             -- Thanks for ordering from Epic MegaGames --

  Run PRINTME to print this then mail it in,  or call our toll-free ordering
            line at 1-800-972-7434 (this number is for orders only!)

========================== Please Rush Me: ==============================

Original ZZT:  [ ] Town  [ ] Caves  [ ] Dungeons  [ ] City
                        Price: $8 each or $24 for all four ... _________

Super ZZT: [ ] Monster Zoo  [ ] Lost Forest  [ ] Proving Grounds
                             $12 each or $24 for all three ... _________

               Special Price. Order all 4 ZZT volumes plus
                  all three Super ZZT Volumes for just $35 ... _________

[ ]  Jill of the Jungle -- 3 huge volumes of 256-color animated
     arcade action! (Requires CGA/EGA/VGA graphics, 80286 or
     faster, and hard disk) ($30)............................. __________

[ ]  Drum Blaster (requires Sound Blaster card, VGA, 640K)
     plus all 4 add-on sound effect & music disks ($30)....... __________

[ ]  Castle of the Winds -- Fantasy role-playing for Microsoft
     Windows 3.0 or later (Two immense game worlds) ($25)..... __________

               Shipping & Handling (Foreign add $2 extra)..... __$2.00___

                       Maryland residents MUST add 5% tax..... __________

                                                Total enclosed __________

IMPORTANT! Circle disk size:  5.25   AND   High Density
                               3.5         Low Density

CPU: 8088  286  386  486    Graphics:  CGA  EGA  VGA  Mono

Is this your first order from Epic MegaGames?   YES   NO

          Name: _______________________________________________

       Address: _______________________________________________

  City, ST Zip: ___________________________________ Phone: _________________

Payment by:  [ ] Check   [ ] Money order  [ ] Mastercard  [ ] Visa

Card # ________________  Exp. Date: ________  Signature: ___________________

As an Epic MegaGames customer, you get a 30-day complete satisfaction gurantee,
fast shipping,  and up-to-date news of all our new releases.  Thank you!

_________________________                                              /-----\
                                                                       |STAMP|
_________________________                                              \-----/

_________________________






                            Epic MegaGames
                            10406 Holbrook Drive
                            Potomac, MD 20854

```
{% endraw %}

## README.DOC

{% raw %}
```
                                                   _______
   ZZT Version 3.1 -- Copyright 1991          ____|__     |               (R)
                                           --|       |    |-------------------
            Epic MegaGames                   |   ____|__  |  Association of
         10406 Holbrook Drive                |  |       |_|  Shareware
          Potomac, MD 20854                  |__|   o   |    Professionals
                                           -----|   |   |---------------------
       Created by Tim Sweeney                   |___|___|    MEMBER


DESCRIPTION.

     ZZT is a new action/adventure game based on object-oriented programming.
To complete Town of ZZT,  you must master 43 game boards filled with creatures
and ingenious puzzles.  The game is very challenging and requires a good amount
of brain power as well as fast reflexes.

     ZZT includes a game editor so you can create your own game worlds using
a set of ready made objects.  You can also write small programs to control
objects using the built in ZZT-OOP programming language.

SPECIFICATIONS:

     ZZT requires a PC compatible computer with at least 512k RAM and any
graphics adapter with a color or monochrome screen.  Keyboard,  Joystick and
Mouse operation are fully supported.

HINTS:

 - When you discover a new object,  try touching it.  Nearly everything has
   some sort of purpose (but watch out for red herrings!)

 - Remember that you can often exit the room you are in by moving off
   the screen.

 - Save the game often.  Then if you get killed you can just restore
   the game and continue on without penalty.

 - Don't feel overwhelmed.  You can expect to play ZZT a total of about
   20 hours before you finish the game.  It is well worth the effort and
   you can always take your journey one step at a time.

NEED HELP?

      Some of the puzzles in ZZT are really tough,  but they can all be solved.
If you are really stuck on a board,  write to me describing your problem and
I'll send you a hint.  Unlimited user support!

REGISTRATION:

     Run PRINTME to print the Epic MegaGames on your printer,  and run
CATALOG to see our latest catalog of games!

    Thank you for being a part of the Shareware community.

                                             - Tim Sweeney,  author of ZZT

```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #4111

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    ZZT      ZIP    118539   7-12-92   6:10p
    SUPERZZT ZIP    103639   7-13-92   3:01a
    GO-STRT  DAT       541   6-01-93  11:07a
    SIGORDER TXT      3334   8-31-93  12:45p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2329   6-01-93   2:31p
    SHAREMAG TXT      1831   6-01-93   2:32p
    CDROM    TXT      8196   6-01-93   3:26p
           10 file(s)     297145 bytes
                           19456 bytes free
