---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #4088)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/4000-4999/DISK4088/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #4088"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M,

                1 2 t h E d i t i o n



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM, winner of the Optical Publishing
Association's Best Consumer Product Award, has added a hypermedia
interface that makes it easy to find and download any type of program
you could want. The WordCruncher text retrieval program has also been
implemented to assist you insearching this vast collection.

This CD-ROM contains over 3700 fully functional shareware programs, each
with a detailed review. The 12th Edition has added over 300 new programs
and over 500 updates since the release of the 11th Edition. The
collection is always kept current and now contains over 70 megabytes of
Windows 3.0 and 3.1 applications, fonts, icons, games and wallpaper
files.

The range of software is phenomenal! There are huge assortments of
games, everything from adventure games with full SVGA and SoundBlaster
support to favorites like Klondike, Chess and Othello. Spreadsheets,
databases, wordprocessors and graphics programs are instantly available
and there are literally hundreds of unique and specialized programs that
will save you time and money. This amazing collection will help you get
a handle on all your business and home accounting and also teach your
children about zoology.

Each of the more than 3700 programs has a one-line description for quick
reference, Just pick one of the 13 software categories and a subcategory
to begin browsing for a program that interests you. You might choose the
Games Category, where you can pick from 12 subcatgories including
Adventure, Arcade, Cards and more. A mouse click (or keyboard stroke) on
the program title takes you to a detailed description of the program.
you can immediately download the software to your hard or floppy drive,
and in many cases view a screen shot.

You can find any program in the collection quickly and easily by using
the search button. When you are in a program category just type in the
title of the program and you will be taken to the description of that
program. The popular WordCruncher text retrieval program has been added
to allow searching every description for any word within that
description, not just in the title or keywords chosen by someone who
thinks differently than you do. The WordCruncher is ideal for finding
programs which perform a specific function, just try searching for
"split", "math" or "subtract". Or switch to the Disks section where you
will find an alphabetical list of all the programs which can be searched
by program title or disk number.

Everyone has their favorite programs and we're no exception. Our 44
favorite programs can be run immediately. No downloading is necessary,
all you do is click on the word "RUN" in the program description and
you'll be working or playing with top notch software right on the CD.

The power of hypermedia will allow you to try out more software than you
ever thought possible. We are sure that you will find a multitude of
programs to your liking on the P-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT PS/2 or compatible with 640K, DOS 3.3 or
higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM player. We
recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.










T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


T h e  P C - S I G   G a m e s    C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.

T h e   P C - S I G   W o r l d   o f   G a m e s   C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The new PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM contains over 550 of the best
shareware games, including 53 educational games for children and 57
Windows games. 430 of them can be played directly from the CD without
using your hard drive space.

This edition employs the award-winning HyperReader interface, allowing
easy searching and playing by using a mouse or the keyboard.

This CD is the first in a six-volume PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware
series. Each volume will include the programs from a section of the
PC-SIG collection and also the programs and text from the current issue
of Shareware Magazine. This CD contains the entire text from the
May/June issue of Shareware Magazine, featuring hardware reviews of
the Tandy Sensation and the Media Vision Pro 16 Multimedia System.
Software reviews included cover 58 new shareware releases, security,
educational, CD audio and PIM's. 159 of the programs mentioned in the
magazine are included and can be downloaded using the HyperReader
interface.

There are also 89 programs which were updated since the last issue of
Shareware Magazine, helping those of you who have purchased the 12th
edition of the PC-SIG Library keep on top of the everchanging world
of shareware.

As well, a description of every program in the PC-SIG Library can be
searched with the WordCruncher text retrieval program. This Games CD
continues the ten year PC-SIG tradition of providing quality programs
and information to help you find the best program for your purpose.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT/PS/2 or compatible computer with 640K,
DOS 3.3 or higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM
player. We recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

For Technical information: Call 408-730-9291 and ask for Technical
Support

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## GRIDWARS.DOC

{% raw %}
```
					DOCUMENTATION FOR GRIDWARS VERSION 1.0

							  Introduction:

			Gridwars is a strategy game for 2-4 players. At the beginning
		of the game each player will select a team to begin with. Each
		team consists of 3 icons (or characters) to start with. With
		these icons you, in turn, can move & attack other players. You
		can collect gold (money), and other items to help you in your
		ultimate goal: wipe out all of your opponents.

		Requirements:

		Computer: DOS compatible
		  Memory: 384K
		Graphics: VGA (640X480X16)
		   Input: Mouse Required

		The following is a list of the files that should be included:

		gridwars.exe	('286 or above version)
		grid8086.exe	(8086 version)
		gridwars.doc    (This File)
		gw.res
		gwt.res
		gwc.res
		gwi1(-7).res
		archer.0
		soldier.0
		wizard.0
		knight.0
		techno.0
		fifth.plr
		force10.plr
		blsswmpy.plr
		nitemare.plr
		obvious.plr
		caddies.plr
		the_one.plr
		game.0(-9)
		examp1.gif		(The GIF's are visual aids)
		examp2.gif		(look at them with any GIF)
		examp3.gif		(file viewer.)
		--------------------------------------------------------------

		Jump right in:

		If you have a GIF file viewer, take a look at the screens, they
		will help you understand what is what better than any printed
		material can. You should be able to play a practice game after
		studying these pictures without to much help, although understanding
		every aspect of this game will take time....

		The Game:

		How to get started:

			The left mouse button is used for selection, the right aborts
			in most situations. This is important to remember when you
			change your mind about moving, attacking, or loading a game.

			Click on NEW. A menu will appear for a new game. You will see
			four boxes at the top, which have X's in them. X means that
			team is not playing, click on the boxes to cycle through
			possible teams. Change only the number of boxes as there are
			players playing. Then choose the length of players' turns by
			clicking on the box next to the number of seconds. Then click
			on DONE.

			The OPTION menu will then appear. Choose the number of rounds
			between BUY PHASES. Then choose the player turn mode:
				FLAT = 1,2,3,4 ...
				RANDOM--Obvious.
				PACE LINE = 1,2,3,4  2,3,4,1  3,4,1,2 ...
				PALANDROMIAL = 1,2,3,4 4,3,2,1 ...
			Then click on DONE.

			Here is a list of teams:

			5th Column : 3 good soldiers make up this team.
			Force 10   : For a real challenge pick this team. There is a
						 wizard, knight, and a good archer on this team.
			Blisswimpy : 2 mediocre archers and a soldier make up this team,
						 but they all carry potions to begin with.
			Morgans Men: 2 wizards, a soldier, and RANDOMLOGIC (TM) plus
						 few potions hold this team together.
			Hobbsrapes : The obvious team of choice for those who want to
						 win at all costs. A good soldier, knight, and
						 techno make up this team.
			The Caddies: 3 very respectable archers with Slayer arrows make
						 up this team.
			THE ONE!   : 2 technos and a wizard--enough said...

		Phases of the game:

			Each player takes their turn in the order that was choosen at
			the beginning of the game. If the timer runs out during a players
			turn then that players turn will be ended for him. One round of
			play is finished when all players have taken their turns. Every
			3, 4, 5, or 6 rounds the BUY phase takes place. No team may EVER
			possess more than six (6) Icons at a time. So if you already
			have 6 do not bother trying to buy more.

			During a turn a player may ATTACK or MOVE in any order. The
			procedures for attacking, moving, and buying are described
			in the "playing screen" section.

  ********* In between turns and rounds items may appear randomly on the
			various levels. It is completely random, there are no favorites
			played out here. This aspect of the game makes it very unpre-
			dictable as to who will win.

			If a player does not ATTACK during a round, that player will
			have two ATTACKs during the next round (this applies to MOVEs as
			well). Note that only TWO ATTACKs or MOVEs can ever be saved up.
			Also note that using some items (Slayer, Grenade, M-72A3 LAW)
			does not count as an ATTACK. The game is over when only one
			player is left.

		The game pieces:

			Player Icons:

			All Icons have the following attributes:
			HP:  Hit Points- Rating of damage that can an Icon can take.
			AC:  Armor Class- Rating of ability to evade an ATTACK.
			MOV: Movement- Rating of movement of the GRID.
			RNG: Range- Rating of range for ATTACKs on other Icons.
			SPD: Speed- Minimum # of attacks (most Icons have a min. to max.)
			ACC: Accuracy- Modifier to hit enemy.
			Damage- Rating of minimum to maximum amount of hit point damage
					an Icon can do. This attrubute is not displayed.

			All of these attributes can be increased by picking up special
			items or weapons during the course of the game.

			Here is a table of icons and their GENERAL attributes. Note that
			this table is not hard and fast for every Icon- each will be at
			least slightly different in some way...

					 HP | AC | MOV| RNG| SPD| ACC| Damage
			---------------------------------------------
			Archer | HI | LOW| MED| LOW| LOW| MED| LOW
			---------------------------------------------
			Soldier| MED| LOW| LOW| MED| MED| LOW| MED
			---------------------------------------------
			Wizard | LOW| MED| VHI| HI |VLOW| HI | HI
			---------------------------------------------
			Knight | VHI| HI | MED|VLOW| LOW| LOW| VHI
			---------------------------------------------
			Techno | MED| VHI| LOW| VHI| VHI| HI | MED

			Here is a list of items any Icon can pick up and/or use:

			Chest of Gold: Landing on this will yield your team 3-10 gold
						   pieces.
		  *	Mystery Potion: Imbibe this and some of your attributes may go up,
							or they may go down...(Blue)
		  *	Heal Potion: Drink this to fully heal yourself.(Green)
			Ring of Speed: Save this for a higher number of attacks.(Pink)
			Ring of Accuracy: Save this for better accuracy.(Cyan)
			Ring of Movement: Keep for better movement.(Dark Purple)
			Ring of Protection: Saving this will raise your AC.(Brown)
			Ring of THE ONE!:Best ring of all. An Icon with a few of these
							 will be tough to kill. Raises Hit Points and
							 other attributes.(White)
		  *	Free Icon: Pick this up and use at any time. Gives your team a
					   free (random) Icon. Remember that no team may EVER
					   possess more than six (6) Icons at a time. So do
					   not waste this if you already have 6, wait until
					   one of them is killed.
		  *	Random Killer: Save and threaten other players with using it.
						   Using this destroys, at random, Icons all over
						   the MAIN level. Note that it can affect your
						   team as well, and does not always work.

			Here is a list of special items and which icons can use them:

		  *	Slayer-Archer: This arrow almost always hits when used.
		 ** Crossbow-Archer: This magical weapon will increase speed
							 and damage.
		  *	Grenade-Soldier: Use this to Destroy all but the strongest
							 opponents.
		  *	M-72A3 LAW-Soldier: Use this anti-tank weapon to obliterate any
								bad situation which happens to befall you.
		 **	Orb of Power-Wizard: Speed and damage are increased with this.
		 **	Shield of Inverness-Knight: AC goes way up!
		 **	Sword of Might-Knight: Range increase of one, speed and damage
								   also go up.
		 **	Fussion Accelerator-Techno: You have just become a terminator.

			 * These items are disposable.
			** Never pick up more than one (each) of these items for each
			   Icon, or you will LOSE more than you gain.

			One final note on items- If you click a ring or weapon, it means
			that you are dropping it forever. All benifits of keeping that
			item will be lost, but sometimes dropping one item of five to
			pick up something better is a good idea.....

		The playing screen:

			After the title screens are gone the playing screen will appear.
			Except for the size of the GRID, it will not change.

			The GRID:

			This is the playing field. You will notice four icons already
			placed on the GRID, these are teleporters which lead to four
			different sub-levels. This level is the main level, the sub-
			levels have one teleporter each which lead back to the main
			level. The players will start the game in a corner of the main
			level (which one depends on the teams' color).

			The Control Area:

			The right side of the screen is where all of the game controls
			are located. At the top:
			NEW: Click here to start a new game.
			LOAD: Load a saved game.
			SAVE: Save a game.
			PAUSE: Pause in the middle of a game (note that the timer stops).
			QUIT: Exit to DOS.
			OPTION: Only used to change somthing in the middle of a game.

			Underneath:
			Next there are several squares and lines. This area is the
			Icon Display Area. When ever an icon is selected, information
			about it will be displayed in this area. There are 5 boxes at
			the top with lines which lead to a box at the center. The box
			at the center is where the character selected will be displayed.
			the other 5 boxes display any items that character might have.
			The long rectangles left and right of the box in the center dis-
			play the selected characters' attributes in a bar graph. If a
			friendly icon was selected, the items displayed in the 5 boxes
			(if any) can be dropped or used by clicking on that box. During
			the BUY PHASE, clicking on the center box will cycle through
			the available icons (in the catagory that was selected).

			Below the Icon Display Area and to the left:
			This area has 5 small GRIDs labeled M,1,2,3,&4. They represent the
			Main level, and Sub-Levels 1-4. Buy clicking on any of these, the
			various levels can be displayed, notice that the outline of the
			level selected will change color to show which level is being
			displayed.

			Below the Icon Display Area and to the right:
			This is the Buy Area. This area is only used during the buy phase
			of the game. There are five small boxes labeled A,S,W,K,&T. these
			boxes are for selecting the type of Icon you whis to look at:
			Archer, Soldier, Wizard, Knight, & Techno. Click on one of these
			and an Icon will appear in The Icon Display Area, also its cost
			will appear. To cycle through the available Icons of that type,
			click on the center box in the Icon Display Area. At any time
			during the Buy Phase you can switch types. To buy an Icon click
			on BUY, if you have enough Gold it will be yours. Note that once
			an Icon is purchased, that particular one can not be bought again
			during the game. This means that after all of the cheap ones are
			gone you are going to have to save a lot more Gold, also this
			keeps a game from going on forever. To end the buying, the player
			must click on DONE to the right of the BUY Area.

			Below the BUY Area:
			Here you see ATTACK, MOVE, & DONE. You will use these 'Buttons'
			the most through out the game. Use DONE when you are finished
			with your turn. For ATTACK & MOVE you must first select a
			friendly Icon, then ATTACK or MOVE, then select an enemy or
			destination. If the enemy or or destination is in range your
			team color will outline the box, if it is not in range the color
			will be dark grey. Experiment with this to see how it works.

			Other areas:
			The black area is where all text will be displayed. 'GOLD' shows
			how much gold you have. 'TIMER' shows how much time you have
			left before your turn is over. 'ROUND' is the current game round.
			'PLAYER' displays the color of the team whoose turn it is.

		Strategies:

			Do damage to other teams right off if you can, otherwise hunt
			for good weapons and collect as much gold as possible. Even
			though an Icon may not use a certain weapon, (such as an archer
			landing on a Sword of Might) it is a good tactic to waste it to
			prevent an enemy from getting to it.

			Unless you only have one Icon left, don't buy a bunch of cheap
			Icons in the face of a powerful enemy. The best way seems to be
			save for later and buy a real challenge when you have enough
			gold.

			The range of the LAW is VERY long, but make sure you are fairly
			close when using a Grenade or Slayer arrow. In time you will
			know the ranges of these weapons with reasonable accuracy.

			Spread out to cover many sub-levels, and check all levels every
			time it is your turn to see if anything suddenly showed up. You
			should coordinate your moves and attacks so as to collect any
			items of value if possible.

			Saving 2 ATTACKS & 2 MOVES allows for a nice hit and run, with
			Icons of high movment.

		Last Word:

			This program was refined, played and tested many times for logic
			errors and bugs, however there is one which involves using a
			DEXXA mouse driver. It seems that during an attack or move the
			cursor does not show a colored outline around the box. I don't
			know how DEXXA managed this, but switching the same mouse with
			a Microsoft Mouse driver seemed to work fine. This program was
			written on a 20 Mhz '286 and compiled in Turbo C++ 1.01, and
			took about a year (off and on) to complete. I plan more additions
			and refinements in the future, so please register your copy for
			-$7.50- and get the latest update. Send payment and any questions
			you may have to:

					Brian McMahon
					PO Box 900411
					San Diego, CA 92190

			Thanks and have fun with it!
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $19.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $39.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $5.00  ______
($5.00 is refundable with your first order)

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

The PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM                       $19.95  ______ 

The PC-SIG World of Windows CD-ROM                     $19.95  ______

The PC-SIG 12th Edition Library CD-ROM                 $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other CD-ROM just!                    $59.00  ______

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware on CD-ROM
(1 year subscription)                                  $99.00  ______


                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD: Call (800) 245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #4088

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    GRIDWARS ZIP    270962   5-13-91  10:23p
    GO-STRT  DAT       541   6-01-93  11:07a
    SIGORDER TXT      3334   8-31-93  12:45p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2329   6-01-93   2:31p
    SHAREMAG TXT      1831   6-01-93   2:32p
    CDROM    TXT      8196   6-01-93   3:26p
            9 file(s)     345929 bytes
                           11264 bytes free
