---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3831)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3831/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3831"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M,

                1 2 t h E d i t i o n



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM, winner of the Optical Publishing
Association's Best Consumer Product Award, has added a hypermedia
interface that makes it easy to find and download any type of program
you could want. The WordCruncher text retrieval program has also been
implemented to assist you insearching this vast collection.

This CD-ROM contains over 3700 fully functional shareware programs, each
with a detailed review. The 12th Edition has added over 300 new programs
and over 500 updates since the release of the 11th Edition. The
collection is always kept current and now contains over 70 megabytes of
Windows 3.0 and 3.1 applications, fonts, icons, games and wallpaper
files.

The range of software is phenomenal! There are huge assortments of
games, everything from adventure games with full SVGA and SoundBlaster
support to favorites like Klondike, Chess and Othello. Spreadsheets,
databases, wordprocessors and graphics programs are instantly available
and there are literally hundreds of unique and specialized programs that
will save you time and money. This amazing collection will help you get
a handle on all your business and home accounting and also teach your
children about zoology.

Each of the more than 3700 programs has a one-line description for quick
reference, Just pick one of the 13 software categories and a subcategory
to begin browsing for a program that interests you. You might choose the
Games Category, where you can pick from 12 subcatgories including
Adventure, Arcade, Cards and more. A mouse click (or keyboard stroke) on
the program title takes you to a detailed description of the program.
you can immediately download the software to your hard or floppy drive,
and in many cases view a screen shot.

You can find any program in the collection quickly and easily by using
the search button. When you are in a program category just type in the
title of the program and you will be taken to the description of that
program. The popular WordCruncher text retrieval program has been added
to allow searching every description for any word within that
description, not just in the title or keywords chosen by someone who
thinks differently than you do. The WordCruncher is ideal for finding
programs which perform a specific function, just try searching for
"split", "math" or "subtract". Or switch to the Disks section where you
will find an alphabetical list of all the programs which can be searched
by program title or disk number.

Everyone has their favorite programs and we're no exception. Our 44
favorite programs can be run immediately. No downloading is necessary,
all you do is click on the word "RUN" in the program description and
you'll be working or playing with top notch software right on the CD.

The power of hypermedia will allow you to try out more software than you
ever thought possible. We are sure that you will find a multitude of
programs to your liking on the P-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT PS/2 or compatible with 640K, DOS 3.3 or
higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM player. We
recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.










T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


T h e  P C - S I G   G a m e s    C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.

T h e   P C - S I G   W o r l d   o f   G a m e s   C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The new PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM contains over 550 of the best
shareware games, including 53 educational games for children and 57
Windows games. 430 of them can be played directly from the CD without
using your hard drive space.

This edition employs the award-winning HyperReader interface, allowing
easy searching and playing by using a mouse or the keyboard.

This CD is the first in a six-volume PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware
series. Each volume will include the programs from a section of the
PC-SIG collection and also the programs and text from the current issue
of Shareware Magazine. This CD contains the entire text from the
May/June issue of Shareware Magazine, featuring hardware reviews of
the Tandy Sensation and the Media Vision Pro 16 Multimedia System.
Software reviews included cover 58 new shareware releases, security,
educational, CD audio and PIM's. 159 of the programs mentioned in the
magazine are included and can be downloaded using the HyperReader
interface.

There are also 89 programs which were updated since the last issue of
Shareware Magazine, helping those of you who have purchased the 12th
edition of the PC-SIG Library keep on top of the everchanging world
of shareware.

As well, a description of every program in the PC-SIG Library can be
searched with the WordCruncher text retrieval program. This Games CD
continues the ten year PC-SIG tradition of providing quality programs
and information to help you find the best program for your purpose.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT/PS/2 or compatible computer with 640K,
DOS 3.3 or higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM
player. We recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

For Technical information: Call 408-730-9291 and ask for Technical
Support

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $19.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $39.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $5.00  ______
($5.00 is refundable with your first order)

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

The PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM                       $19.95  ______ 

The PC-SIG 12th Edition Library CD-ROM                 $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other CD-ROM just!                    $59.00  ______

The Essential Home & Business Collection CD-ROM        $39.00  ______  

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware on CD-ROM
(1 year subscription)                                  $99.00  ______


                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD: Call (800) 245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

## DESCRIBE.DOC

{% raw %}
```
                              STABLE - DATA ASSISTANT
                              -----------------------
        
                                   Version 1.02
                                   ------------
        
                        DESCRIPTION AND AUTHOR INFORMATION
                        ----------------------------------
        
                                    March, 1993
        

        This file includes sample descriptions which should be used to
        describe the Stable - Data Assistant product.

        Disk Vendors and Distributors; also refer to the VENDOR.DOC file.

        -------------------------------------------------------------------
                              Program Information
        -------------------------------------------------------------------

        File Name on CompuServe:
        ------------------------
        Look for DASST.ZIP containing the full set of product files in the
        Investor's (CIS:INVFORUM) and Windows Advanced (CIS:WINADV) forums.


        File Name(s) for BBSs:
        ----------------------
        For consistency and to help users locate the files, please use the
        following file names:

           If the programs and documentation are contained within a single
           archive file, please use the following name:

              DASST102.ZIP   Program and Documentation

           If the program is compressed using some other file compression
           method, then please use the name "FileName" with the appropriate
           extension (PAK, ARC, LZH, ZOO, etc.).

           If the programs and documentation are in separate archive files,
           please use the following names (both must be posted):

              DASST102.ZIP  Programs

              DASSTDOC.ZIP  Documentation

        Keywords:
        ~~~~~~~~~
           STOCK, MARKET, FINANCIAL, COMMUNICATION, RETRIEVAL, WINDOWS,
           SHAREWARE, ASP, INVEST, BUSINESS, DATA

        Categories:
        ~~~~~~~~~~~
           Financial, Communications, Stock Market, Windows
        
        Single Line Description:
        ------------------------
           Stable Data Assistant v1.02 <ASP> Windows 3.1

        Short Description:
        ------------------
           Stable - Data Assistant provides a set of highly flexible data
           management functions for retrieving and maintaining your financial
           ASCII data files in the Windows 3.1 environment.  This product 
           features automated daily and historical data retrieval from 
           CompuServe - saving you both time and money in maintaining your 
           financial data.  Prompted manual update alleviates the need to 
           write special programs that update your ASCII data files - simply
           enter the required daily data and Data Assistant does the rest.  
           File maintenance functions allow you to create, modify, and merge
           files - as well as performing data verification and split/dividend
           adjustments to your data.  An ASCII communication terminal allows
           you to create and process your own communication scripts.  Data
           Assistant is a companion product to Stable - Technical Graphs,
           but can be used with other products that make use of ASCII
           financial information in the Stable format.

        Long Description:
        -----------------
           Stable - Data Assistant provides a set of highly flexible data
           management functions for retrieving and maintaining your financial
           ASCII data files in the Windows 3.1 environment.  This product 
           features automated daily and historical data retrieval from 
           CompuServe - saving you both time and money in maintaining your 
           financial data.  Prompted manual update alleviates the need to 
           write special programs that update your ASCII data files - simply
           enter the required daily data and Data Assistant does the rest.  
           File maintenance functions allow you to create, modify, and merge
           files - as well as performing data verification and split/dividend
           adjustments to your data.  An ASCII communication terminal allows
           you to create and process your own communication scripts.  Data
           Assistant is a companion product to Stable - Technical Graphs,
           but can be used with other products that make use of ASCII
           financial information.

           Automated Data Update is performed using the CompuServe data
           service.  By far the most important feature of Data Assistant,
           automated data update can save you time and money every day.
           Data Assistant establishes communications with CompuServe, 
           retrieves your financial data symbol(s), logs off from CompuServe,
           and updates your ASCII financial data automatically and 
           conveniently.

           Manual Data Update is supported through dialog box prompting.
           This alleviates the need to write special programs that update
           your ASCII data files - or to manually edit your files using a
           text editor.  After establishing the financial symbols and 
           associated data files you want to maintain, Data Assistant prompts
           you for the daily figures and automatically updates your ASCII
           data files.

           Data File Maintenance provides you with a wide variety of data 
           maintenance functions for managing your historical ASCII data 
           files.  With this capability, you can:

              o  Create new ASCII data files.
              o  Modify the contents/format of your existing ASCII data files.
              o  Merge several ASCII data files together into one file.
              o  Perform data verification on your ASCII data files.
              o  Adjust your ASCII data files for splits and dividends.

           Script File Processing for automating communication sessions with
           remote systems via the modem is also available through a
           communications terminal.  This feature is how Stable Data Assistant
           performs automated retrieval.  You too can take advantage of this
           processing feature by writing your own communication scripts for
           almost any personal need or requirement.

        Registration Information:
        -------------------------
        Stable - Data Assistant is not free software!

        WINTERRA Software Group provides a limited license for you to
        evaluate the product for a period of 30 days in your own environment.
        This "try before you buy" method lets you determine if the product
        meets your individual needs without having to actually purchase it
        first.  However, if you continue to use the product after the 30 day
        evaluation period, you are required to purchase a licensed version of
        Stable - Data Assistant and to become a registered user.

        As a registered user, you will receive a personalized copy of the
        latest Stable - Data Assistant product on either 5 1/4 or 3 1/2
        inch diskette.  Your registered copy is personalized with your name
        and a unique license number that - unlike the evaluation version of
        the product - will be licensed for one single user and cannot be
        distributed.
        
        Additionally, as a registered user you will:
      
              o  Receive a laser-printed User's Manual for the product.
              o  Receive an offer for a free Introductory Membership to
                 CompuServe (including a $15 Ussage Credit)
              o  Be notified in advance of all new major product releases.
                 As a licensed user you will be offered major version
                 releases at a substantially reduced and favorable rate.
              o  Receive technical support by phone, mail, or electronic mail
                 via CompuServe.

        To register, simply print, fill out, and return the supplied
        registration form found in the REGISTER.DOC text file, in the on-line
        help, or the User Reference Guide file STABLE.WRI.

        -------------------------------------------------------------------
        Credit Card Customers: Please contact WINTERRA Software Group for
        the availability of accepting credit card orders.
        -------------------------------------------------------------------

        Author/Publisher Information:
        -----------------------------
           WINTERRA Software Group is a software company whose goal is to
           provide useful, easy to use programs, committed to meeting your
           day to day investment needs.  It is hoped that you, as an
           interested and/or experienced user of market related software,
           will provide comments and suggestions assisting us in meeting
           this goal.  You are encouraged to let us know what you think of
           the product - and what features and functionality are important
           to you.
   
           Please feel free to contact us at any time if you have any
           questions, comments or suggestions.  We can be reached by mail,
           phone, fax, or electronic mail at:


                             WINTERRA Software Group
                                  P.O.Box 4106
                            Highlands Ranch, CO 80126

                            Voice/Fax: (303) 470-6323
  
                                 Electronic Mail:
                              CompuServe 70244,2371
```
{% endraw %}

## LICENSE.DOC

{% raw %}
```
                              STABLE - DATA ASSISTANT
                              -----------------------
        
                                   Version 1.02
                                   ------------
        
                       INDIVIDUAL USER LICENSE INFORMATION
                       -----------------------------------
        
                                   March, 1993
        
        
        This file contains important license information regarding the
        use of Stable - Data Assistant.  This information applies to 
        INDIVIDUAL USERS who wish to distribute copies to friends
        and associates.

             User Groups, Computer Clubs, Disk Vendors and Distributors,
             Subscription Services, Disk-of-the-Month Clubs, etc., should
             refer to the VENDOR.DOC file for license information.

             BBS SYSOPs should refer to the SYSOP.DOC file for complete
             information relating to them.

             SITE LICENSES are also available.  Refer to the SITELICE.DOC
             file for detailed information.

        PLEASE!  Show your support for Shareware's "try-before-you-buy"
                 concept by registering those programs you actually use.

        Trial Use License:
        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
        Stable - Data Assistant is NOT a public domain program.  It is
        Copyright (c) 1992-1993 by WINTERRA Software Group.  All Rights
        Reserved.

        This software and accompanying documentation are protected by
        United States Copyright law and also by International Treaty
        provisions.  Any use of this software in violation of Copyright
        law or the terms of this limited license will be prosecuted to
        the best of our ability.  The conditions under which you may copy
        this software and documentation are clearly outlined below under
        "Distribution Restrictions".

        WINTERRA Software Group hereby grants you a limited license to use
        this software for evaluation purposes for a period not to exceed
        thirty (30) days.  If you intend to continue using this software
        after this thirty day evaluation period, you MUST register as a
        licensed user and forward payment to WINTERRA Software Group.

        Licensee shall not use, copy, rent, lease, sell, modify,
        decompile, disassemble, otherwise reverse engineer, or transfer
        the licensed program except as provided in this agreement.  Any
        such unauthorized use shall result in immediate and automatic
        termination of this license.

        All rights not expressly granted here are reserved to WINTERRA
        Software Group.


        Limited Distribution License:
        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
        As the copyright holder for Stable Data Assistant, WINTERRA
        Software Group authorizes distribution by individuals only in
        accordance with the following restrictions.

           (User Groups, Computer Clubs, Disk Vendors and Distributors,
           Subscription Services, Disk-of-the-Month Clubs, etc., should
           refer to the VENDOR.DOC file for complete information relating
           to them.)

           (BBS SYSOPs should refer to the SYSOP.DOC file for complete
           information relating to them.)

        Individuals are hereby granted permission by WINTERRA Software
        Group to copy the Stable - Data Assistant diskette for their own
        evaluation use, or for other individuals to evaluate, ONLY when the
        following conditions are met.

        The Stable - Data Assistant package is defined as containing all
        the material listed in the PACKING.LST text file.  If any of the
        files listed in the PACKING.LST text file, or the PACKING.LST file
        itself, are missing, then the package is not complete and
        distribution is forbidden.  Please contact us to obtain a complete
        package suitable for distribution.

           o  The Stable - Data Assistant package - including all related
              program files and documentation files - CANNOT BE MODIFIED
              IN ANY WAY and must be distributed as a complete package,
              without exception.  The PACKING.LST text file contains a
              list of all files that are part of the Stable Data Assistant
              package.

           o  No price or other compensation may be charged for the Stable -
              Data Assistant package.

           o  The Stable - Data Assistant package CANNOT be sold as part
              of some other inclusive package.  Nor can it be included in
              any commercial software packaging offer, without a written
              agreement from WINTERRA Software Group.

           o  The PRINTED User's Guide may not be reproduced in whole or
              in part, using any means, without the written permission
              of WINTERRA Software Group.  In other words, the disk-based
              documentation may not be distributed in PRINTED (hardcopy)
              form.

           o  Stable - Data Assistant cannot be "rented" or "leased" to
              others.

           o  Licensee shall not use, copy, rent, lease, sell, modify,
              decompile, disassemble, otherwise reverse engineer, or
              transfer the licensed program except as provided in this
              agreement.  Any such unauthorized use shall result in
              immediate and automatic termination of this license.

        All rights not expressly granted here are reserved to WINTERRA
        Software Group.
```
{% endraw %}

## README.DOC

{% raw %}
```

             *****************************************************
             *                                                   *
             *               WINTERRA Software Group             *
             *                                                   *
             *                  _______                          *
             *             ____|__     |                (R)      *
             *          --|       |    |-------------------      *
             *            |   ____|__  |  Association of         *
             *            |  |       |_|  Shareware              *
             *            |__|   o   |    Professionals          *
             *          -----|   |   |---------------------      *
             *               |___|___|    MEMBER                 *
             *                                                   *
             *     Stable Investment Software - Data Assistant   *
             *                   Version 1.02                    *
             *                                                   *
             *                    March, 1993                    *
             *                                                   *
             *****************************************************

                Stable - Data Assistant is not free software!

        WINTERRA Software Group provides a limited license for you to
        evaluate this product for a period of 30 days in your own work
        environment.  This "try before you buy" approach allows you to
        determine if the product meets your individual needs before you
        purchase it.  If you continue to use this product after the 30 day
        evaluation period, you are required to purchase a licensed version.

        PLEASE READ THIS ENTIRE FILE BEFORE INSTALLING OR RUNNING STABLE.

        This version of Stable Data Assistant is the most current version
        as of the above release date.  However, keep in mind that we are
        constantly upgrading and enhancing our products, and this version
        may not reflect the most current version of the product.

Requirements
------------
      o An 80286/386/486 personal computer.
      o Microsoft Windows 3.1 or greater and MS-DOS version 5.0 or greater.
      o VGA or higher resolution monitor.
      o Hayes-compatible modem (for automated data retrieval).
      o CompuServe membership for accessing financial data through
        BASICQUOTES and MQINT interfaces (free introductory membership
        available with registration).
      o System mouse or other pointing device.

Version 1.02
------------
This version is the first public release distributed via the shareware
marketing method.  We hope you find our product both useful and beneficial
in your daily financial work.

        Stable - Data Assistant provides a set of highly flexible data
        management functions for maintaining financial ASCII data files
        in the Windows 3.1 environment.  The product features automated
        daily/historical data retrieval from CompuServe - saving you both
        time and money in maintaining your financial data.  Prompted manual
        update alleviates the need to write special programs that update
        your ASCII data files - simply enter the required daily data and
        Data Assistant does the rest.  File maintenance functions allow you
        to create, modify, and merge files - as well as performing data
        verification and split/dividend adjustments to your data.  An ASCII
        communication terminal allows you to create and process your own
        data communication scripts.  Data Assistant is a companion product
        to Stable - Technical Graphs, but can be used with other products
        that use ASCII financial information conforming to the Stable ASCII
        file format.

Additional Information
----------------------
      o Please verify that you have all the files for this distribution by
        checking the PACKING.LST file.

      o Disk Vendors and Distributors, User Groups, Computer Clubs,
        Subscription Services, Disk-of-the-Month Clubs, etc., should
        refer to the VENDOR.DOC file for complete licensing information.
        Also see DESCRIBE.DOC for text descriptions of this product.

      o BBS SYSOPs should refer to the SYSOP.DOC file for complete
        licensing information relating to them.  Also see DESCRIBE.DOC
        for text descriptions of this product.

      o Individuals should refer to the LICENSE.DOC file for complete
        information on product distribution to friends or associates as
        well as the specific limited license related to use of this
        product.

      o The easiest form of installation is to copy all of the distribution
        files into a single directory (i.e. \DASST).  Total disk requirements
        for all shareware files is 550K.

        PLEASE READ THE "STABLE.WRI" FILE USING MICROSOFT WRITE FOR
        ADDITIONAL INSTALLATION AND REGISTRATION INFORMATION.

Credit Card Orders through Public (software) Library
-----------------------------------------------------
You can call 1-800-242-4775 or (713) 524-6394 or FAX to (713) 524-6398 or
order via Compuserve at 71355,470, or via mail at PsL, P.O. Box 35705,
Houston, TX 77235-5705.  Ask to order Stable Data Assistant product #10821.

   THIS IS A REGISTRATION SERVICE ONLY.  PsL DOES NOT PROVIDE TECHNICAL
   SUPPORT AND CANNOT GIVE YOU INFORMATION ABOUT REACHING THE AUTHOR.

Conclusion
----------
Thank you for supporting this Shareware product.  If you need or would like
a shareware copy of Stable Data Assistant on diskette, please contact one
of the many ASP Shareware Vendors.  To find an ASP Vendor, you can contact
the Association of Shareware Professionals for information at (616) 788-5131
or by fax at (616)-788-2765, or contact us at the address/phone below.

Look for Stable Technical Graphs - the companion to Stable Data Assistant!


                          WINTERRA Software Group
                               P.O.Box 4106
                         Highlands Ranch, CO 80126

                         Voice/Fax: (303) 470-6323

                              Electronic Mail:
                           CompuServe 70244,2371
```
{% endraw %}

## REGISTER.DOC

{% raw %}
```
        ****************** IMPORTANT WARRANTY INFORMATION *****************

                             Stable - Data Assistant
                                   Version 1.02

                  *** PLEASE READ THIS INFORMATION CAREFULLY ***
                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

        TRIAL USE (SHAREWARE EVALUATION VERSION) WARRANTY:
        --------------------------------------------------
        The Shareware evaluation (trial use) version of Stable - Data
        Assistant is provided "AS IS".

        WINTERRA (tm) Software Group makes no warranties of any kind,
        expressed or implied, that this program is error free or that any
        supplied data or other program information is accurate or complete.
        No representation or warranties are made as to the completeness,
        accuracy, or precision of this program.
        
        ALL WARRANTIES (INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
        FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE) ARE EXPRESSLY EXCLUDED.  THIS SOFTWARE
        AND ALL PROGRAM FILES ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE USER MUST ASSUME
        THE ENTIRE RISK OF USING THIS PROGRAM.

        REGISTERED VERSION ONLY WARRANTY:
        ---------------------------------
        WINTERRA Software Group warrants the physical diskette(s) and 
        physical documentation provided with registered versions to be
        free of defects in materials and workmanship for a period of
        ninety days from the date of registration.  If WINTERRA Software
        Group receives notification within the warranty period of defects
        in materials or workmanship, and such notification is determined
        by WINTERRA Software Group to be correct, WINTERRA Software Group
        will replace the defective diskette(s) or documentation.

        ALL WARRANTIES (INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
        FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE) ARE EXPRESSLY EXCLUDED.  THIS SOFTWARE
        AND ALL PROGRAM FILES ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE USER MUST ASSUME
        THE ENTIRE RISK OF USING THIS PROGRAM.

        The entire and exclusive liability and remedy for breach of this
        Limited Warranty shall be limited to the replacement of defective
        diskette(s) or documentation and shall not include or extend to
        any claim for or right to recover any other damages, including
        but not limited to, loss of profits or other trading losses
        incurred as a result of any decision or action taken on your part
        based upon information provided, implied, or suggested by this
        product, loss of data, or use of the software, or special,
        incidental, or consequential damages or other similar claims, even
        if WINTERRA Software Group has been specifically advised of the
        possibility of such damages.  In no event will WINTERRA Software
        Group's liability for any damages to you or any other person ever
        exceed the lower of the suggested list price or actual price paid
        for the license to use the software, regardless of any form of the
        claim.

        ****************** IMPORTANT WARRANTY INFORMATION *****************

                             STABLE - DATA ASSISTANT
                                   Version 1.02

                                REGISTRATION FORM
                                -----------------

        To purchase a licensed version of Stable - Data Assistant, please
        return this registration form along with your check or postal money
        order (drawn on U.S. FUNDS ONLY please), and mail to:
        
                               WINTERRA Software Group
                                    P.O.Box 4106
                              Highlands Ranch, CO 80126

                              Voice/Fax: (303) 470-6323

        Once registered, you will receive the LATEST version of the product,
        a laser-printed User's Manual, an offer for a free Introductory
        Membership to CompuServe (including a $15 Usage Credit), future
        upgrade notifications, and technical product support.

             Stable Data Assistant is $39.95 for a single user license.
             Site licenses are also available - see file SITELICE.DOC.

        -------------------------------------------------------------------
        
        Name:    __________________________________________________________
                   
        Company: __________________________________________________________
        
        Address: __________________________________________________________
        
        City:    ____________________________  State: ______  Zip: ________
   
        Phone:   (______)__________________    Fax: (______)_______________
        
        Date:    __________________  CompuServe ID: _______________________

        Format:   ____  3 1/2" 720-KB    ____ 5 1/4" 360-KB
        
        Quantity: ____  Stable - Data Assistant      @$39.95  $____________

                        Shipping/Handling/Customs
                  ____  U.S.                         @$ 4.00  $____________
                  ____  Canada/Mexico                @$ 6.00  $____________
                  ____  International                @$12.00  $____________

                                                       TOTAL  $____________

        -------------------------------------------------------------------
        Credit Card Customers: Please contact WINTERRA Software Group for
        the availability of accepting credit card orders.
        -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       rf001


```
{% endraw %}

## SITELICE.DOC

{% raw %}
```



                             STABLE - DATA ASSISTANT
                             -----------------------
        
                                   Version 1.02
                                   ------------
        
                             SITE LICENSE INFORMATION
                             ------------------------
        
                                    March, 1993
        
        
        What is a site license?  A site license is an inexpensive way for
        more than one person to legally use one copy of a program on more
        than one computer at a time.  Site licenses are designed for
        companies, offices or workgroups where more than one person in
        the organization needs to use a product, but does not need
        additional manuals or disks.  Site licensing enables companies,
        departments, government agencies, etc., to equip their personnel
        with the tools they need at a minimal cost.

        How do site licenses work?  The company purchasing a site license
        (the licensee) provides a single point of contact for shipping,
        technical support, upgrades, etc., and we (the licensor) provide
        a "golden master" of the diskettes, manual, and any other parts
        of the package.

        Exhibit 1 gives a breakdown of the cost of site licensing and how
        much you save per site licensed.

        The following document is the complete license agreement.  Simply
        print it, fill it out, sign under LICENSEE, enclose a check or
        money order for the correct amount, and mail it to:

                             WINTERRA Software Group
                                  P.O.Box 4106
                            Highlands Ranch, CO 80126

                            Voice/Fax: (303) 470-6323

        Upon receipt of the completed, signed form, and a check or money
        order for the correct amount, we will send you the required
        "golden masters" and a copy of the license agreement with an
        authorized signature under LICENSOR.

        If you have any questions, or if you need site license information
        for more than 100 sites, please call.

        All of the following pages are part of the actual site license
        agreement.




        WINTERRA (TM) Software Group           Stable - Data Assistant 1.02
        Site License                                            Page 1 of 6



                       Stable - Data Assistant Version 1.02


                          END USER SITE LICENSE AGREEMENT
                          -------------------------------


        WINTERRA Software Group (Licensor) grants to ______________________

        _________________________________________________________(Licensee),
        and Licensee accepts, a license to use the licensed program in
        accordance with the terms and conditions contained in this agreement.


        1.0 DEFINITIONS

             1.1 "Licensed program" means the object code version of the
        program listed in Exhibit 1 and related program user
        documentation.  No rights to the source code versions of the
        licensed program are granted by this license.

             1.2 "Object code" means any instruction or set of
        instructions in machine executable form.

             1.3 "User documentation" means any standard manuals or other
        related materials used for user instruction or reference in use of
        the licensed program.

             1.4 "Use" means copying of any portion of the licensed
        program from a storage unit or media into the designated equipment
        and execution of the licensed program on the equipment.


        2.0 LICENSE GRANT

             2.1  Licensee is granted a nontransferable, nonexclusive right
        to use the number of copies of the licensed program indicated on
        Exhibit 1 for Licensee's internal use.  Licensor (WINTERRA Software
        Group) will deliver one copy of the licensed program to Licensee.
        Licensee may make additional copies of the licensed program, up to
        the number of copies licensed herein, provided that each copy of the
        program contains WINTERRA Software Group's copyright notice and any
        other proprietary legends, including legends under the Federal
        Acquisition Regulations (FAR), if any, contained on the delivered
        copy.

             2.2  Each copy of the licensed program provided under this
        license may be used on only one computer at any one time.  If used
        on a network system, each terminal user is automatically considered
        to be using a distinct copy of the licensed program whether or not
        he is actually using it.


        WINTERRA (TM) Software Group           Stable - Data Assistant 1.02
        Site License                                            Page 2 of 6



             2.3 Licensee shall not use, copy, rent, lease, sell, modify,
        decompile, disassemble, otherwise reverse engineer, or transfer
        the licensed program except as provided in this agreement.  Any
        such unauthorized use shall result in immediate and automatic
        termination of this license.


        3.0 TERMS

             3.1 This license is effective until terminated.  Licensee may
        terminate it at any time by destroying the licensed program and
        all copies of it and notifying WINTERRA Software Group in writing.
        This license will also terminate as otherwise provided in this
        agreement.  On termination, Licensee shall return all materials
        not destroyed to WINTERRA Software Group together with a written
        verification that the remaining materials have been destroyed.


        4.0 PAYMENT

             4.1 The fee for this license is set forth in Exhibit 1,
        payable as set forth.


        5.0 CONFIDENTIALITY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

             5.1 The licensed program is licensed, not sold.  Nothing in
        this agreement shall be construed as conveying title in the
        licensed program to Licensee.

             5.2 Licensee understands and agrees that the source code for
        the licensed program and all documentation related thereto
        constitute the valuable properties and trade secrets of WINTERRA
        Software Group, owner of the copyright to the licensed program,
        embodying substantial creative efforts which are secret,
        confidential, and not generally known by the public, and which
        secure to WINTERRA Software Group a competitive advantage.

             5.3 Licensee agrees during the term of this license, and
        thereafter, to hold the licensed program, including any copies
        thereof and any documentation related thereto, in strict
        confidence and to not permit any person or entity to obtain access
        to it except as required for Licensee's own internal use
        hereunder.

             5.4 Licensee shall inform WINTERRA Software Group promptly and
        in writing of any actual or suspected unauthorized use or disclosure
        of the licensed programs or documentation related thereto.

             5.5 The obligations under this paragraph shall survive the
        termination or rescission of this agreement.


        WINTERRA (TM) Software Group           Stable - Data Assistant 1.02
        Site License                                            Page 3 of 6



        6.0 LIMITED WARRANTY

             6.1 WINTERRA Software Group warrants that for a period of sixty
        days from the date of delivery of the licensed program, the program,
        if unmodified by the Licensee, will perform in substantial
        conformity with the user documentation.  WINTERRA Software Group
        does not warrant that the licensed program is free from coding
        errors.  Any program problems reported to WINTERRA Software Group
        during the warranty period and determined by WINTERRA Software Group
        to be actual coding errors will be corrected by WINTERRA Software
        Group within a reasonable time.  Any modifications to the licensed
        program shall thereafter be licensed AS IS.

             6.2 The above warranty does not apply to the extent that any
        failure of the licensed program to perform as warranted is caused
        by the licensed program being (1) not used in accordance with the
        user documentation, or (2) modified by any person other than
        authorized WINTERRA Software Group personnel.

             6.3 LICENSOR MAKES AND LICENSEE RECEIVES NO OTHER WARRANTY OF
        ANY KIND, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
        WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND/OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
        PURPOSE.


        7.0 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

             7.1 The total liability of WINTERRA Software Group or its
        suppliers for any claim or damage arising out of the use of the
        licensed program or otherwise related to this license shall be
        limited to direct damages which shall not exceed the license
        fee(s) which have been paid by Licensee to WINTERRA Software Group
        for the specific client project which is the subject of such claim
        or damage.

             7.2 IN NO EVENT SHALL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE FOR
        ADDITIONAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY LOST PROFITS, LOST SAVINGS OR
        OTHER INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE
        OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE LICENSED PROGRAM, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS
        BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


        8.0 TERMINATION.  THIS LICENSE MAY BE TERMINATED BY WINTERRA
        SOFTWARE GROUP IF:

             8.1 Licensee fails to comply with any material term or
        condition of this agreement and Licensee fails to cure such
        failure within fifteen days after notices of such failure by
        WINTERRA Software Group; and




        WINTERRA (TM) Software Group           Stable - Data Assistant 1.02
        Site License                                            Page 4 of 6



             8.2 Licensee's normal business operations are disrupted or
        discontinued for more than thirty days by reason of insolvency,
        bankruptcy, receivership, or business termination.


        9.0 GENERAL TERMS

             9.1 Neither this agreement nor any rights or obligations
        hereunder shall be assigned or otherwise transferred by Licensee
        without prior written consent of WINTERRA Software Group, which
        consent will not be unreasonably withheld.  WINTERRA Software Group
        may assign this agreement entirely in its discretion upon the
        express written assumption of the obligations hereunder by the
        assignee.

             9.2 This agreement shall be interpreted and enforced in
        accordance with and shall be governed by the laws of the State of
        Colorado applicable to contracts between residents.  No suit for
        enforcement of or for a declaration of rights between the parties
        to this agreement shall be commenced in any court other than the
        Municipal, County or District Court in and for Douglas County,
        State of Colorado.

             9.3 Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to
        this agreement or the breach thereof shall be settled by
        arbitration in accordance with the commercial rules of the
        American Arbitration Association, using an arbitrator with
        knowledge of computers and software, and judgment upon the award
        rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having
        jurisdiction thereof.  No arbitration or other action arising out
        of any claimed breach of this agreement or transactions under this
        agreement may be demanded by either party more than one year after
        the cause of action accrued.  The prevailing party in any such
        action related to or arising under this agreement shall be
        entitled to reasonable attorneys' fees.  This provision shall not
        apply to any action or proceeding for injunctive relief.

             9.4 This agreement and its exhibits contain the entire
        agreement between the parties hereto, superseding all previous
        agreements, representations, understandings and negotiations.
        This agreement may not be amended other than by writing signed by
        an authorized representative of the parties.

             9.5 If any terms or provisions of this agreement shall be
        found to be illegal or unenforceable then, notwithstanding, this
        agreement shall remain in full force and effect and such term or
        provision shall be deemed stricken.






        WINTERRA (TM) Software Group           Stable - Data Assistant 1.02
        Site License                                            Page 5 of 6



             9.6 No amendment of this agreement shall be effective unless
        it is in writing and signed by duly authorized representatives or
        both parties.  No term or provision hereof shall be deemed waived
        and no breach excused unless such waiver or consent shall be in
        writing and signed by the party claimed to have waived or
        consented.  Any consent by any party to or waiver of a breach by
        the other, whether express or implied, shall not constitute a
        consent to, waiver of or excuse for any other, different or
        subsequent breach.

             9.7 This agreement shall be binding on and shall inure to the
        benefit of the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and
        assigns of the parties hereto, but nothing in this paragraph shall
        be construed as a consent to any assignment of this agreement by
        either party except as provided hereinabove.

             9.8 Timely payment is of the essence of this agreement.

             9.9 This agreement may be signed in counterparts.


        Effective this _________ day of ________________________, 19_____.

                    LICENSEE                          LICENSOR            

        _______________________________    _______________________________
        Authorized Representative          Authorized Representative

        Typed name_____________________    Typed name_____________________

        Title__________________________    Title__________________________

        Address________________________    Address________________________

        _______________________________       WINTERRA Software Group

        _______________________________       P.O. Box 4106

        _______________________________       Highlands Ranch, CO 80126














        WINTERRA (TM) Software Group           Stable - Data Assistant 1.02
        Site License                                            Page 6 of 6




                                     EXHIBIT 1

                                 Licensed Program

                        Stable Data Assistant Version 1.02

              NUMBER OF USERS     LICENSE FEE PER USER    SAVINGS
              ---------------     --------------------    -------
                  5 -  10                $29.96             25%
                 11 -  20                $28.76             28%
                 21 -  30                $27.56             31%
                 31 -  40                $26.36             34%
                 41 -  50                $25.16             37%
                 51 -  60                $23.97             40%
                 61 -  70                $22.77             43%
                 71 -  80                $21.57             46%
                 81 - 100                $19.97             50%
                 91+                     [Call]


        The above prices include one copy of the Licensed Version of Stable
        Data Assistant.  Licensee may make additional copies, up to the
        number of copies licensed.  WINTERRA Software Group can supply
        multiple copies of the distribution diskettes at an additional cost
        of $5.00 per copy plus shipping and handling costs.  WINTERRA
        Software Group can supply multiple copies of the printed User's
        Manual at an additional cost of $10.00 per copy plus shipping and
        handling costs.
























        WINTERRA (TM) Software Group           Stable - Data Assistant 1.02
```
{% endraw %}

## SYSOP.DOC

{% raw %}
```
                             STABLE - DATA ASSISTANT
                             -----------------------
        
                                  Version 1.02
                                  ------------
        
                                 BBS INFORMATION
                                 ---------------
        
                                   March, 1993
        
        
        
        This file contains information regarding the posting of the Stable
        Data Assistant package on Bulletin Board Systems.
        
        For sample descriptions which you may use to describe the product,
        please refer to the DESCRIBE.DOC text file.
        
           USER GROUPS, COMPUTER CLUBS, DISK VENDORS AND DISTRIBUTORS,
                Please refer to the VENDOR.DOC text file for information.
        
           INDIVIDUALS AND COMPANY USERS:
                Please refer to the LICENSE.DOC and REGISTER.DOC files for
                information.
        
        -----------------------------------------------------------------
                            Distribution Requirements:
        -----------------------------------------------------------------
        
        Limited Distribution License:
        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
        As the exclusive copyright holder for Stable Data Assistant,
        WINTERRA Software Group authorizes on-line distribution only in
        accordance with the following restrictions.  Disk Vendors and
        Distributors should refer to the VENDOR.DOC text file for complete
        license information.
        
        The Stable Data Assistant package is defined as containing all
        the material listed in the PACKING.LST text file.  If any files
        listed in the PACKING.LST text file, or the PACKING.LST file
        itself, are missing, then the package is not complete and
        distribution is forbidden.  Please contact us to obtain a complete
        package suitable for distribution.
        
            o  The Stable Data Assistant package - including all
               related program files and documentation files - CANNOT BE
               MODIFIED IN ANY WAY (other than that mentioned in the
               following paragraph) and must be distributed as a complete
               package, without exception.  The PACKING.LST text file
               contains a list of all files that are part of the Stable
               Data Assistant package.

            o  Many BBSs customarily add a small text file (advertisement)
               to each archived file.  This text file describes the BBS
               and tells people that the file was downloaded from that
               particular BBS.  Other BBSs add a small one-line message
               with their BBS name and phone number into the compressed
               file, which will display when the file is uncompressed.
               Either of these methods of mentioning your BBS are
               acceptable and may be used, provided the program and
               documentation is otherwise unmodified and complete.
        
            o  Licensee shall not use, copy, rent, lease, sell, modify,
               decompile, disassemble, otherwise reverse engineer, or
               transfer the licensed program except as provided in this
               agreement.  Any such unauthorized use shall result in
               immediate and automatic termination of this license.
        
        All rights not expressly granted here are reserved to WINTERRA
        Software Group.
```
{% endraw %}

## VENDOR.DOC

{% raw %}
```
                             STABLE - DATA ASSISTANT
                             -----------------------
        
                                   Version 1.02
                                   ------------
        
                                VENDOR INFORMATION
                                ------------------
        
                                   March, 1993
        
        
        This file provides information for Shareware Distributors, Disk
        Vendors, Computer Clubs, and Users Groups who wish to distribute
        the Stable Data Assistant package.
        
        For sample descriptions which you may use to describe the product,
        please refer to the DESCRIBE.DOC text file.

           BBS SYSOPs:
                Please refer to the SYSOP.DOC text file for information.
        
           INDIVIDUALS AND COMPANY USERS:
                Individuals who wish to distribute the Stable Data Assistant
                package to friends or associates may do so in accordance 
                with the restrictions outlined in the LICENSE.DOC file.
        
        -------------------------------------------------------------------
                             Distribution Requirements
        -------------------------------------------------------------------
        Computer Clubs and User Groups wishing to add the Stable Data
        Assistant package to their disk library may do so in accordance
        with the Distribution Restrictions listed below.
        
        All Vendors and Shareware Distributors wishing to be placed on our
        Product Update List for future upgrades are requested to mail us a
        copy of your software catalog.
        
        Limited Distribution License:
        -----------------------------
        As the exclusive copyright holder for Stable Data Assistant,
        WINTERRA Software Group authorizes distribution only in accordance
        with the following listed restrictions:

        ASP APPROVED VENDORS in good standing are hereby given permission
        to distribute the Stable Data Assistant.  Non-ASP member vendors
        must request permission prior to distributing this package.
        
        The Stable Data Assistant package is defined as containing all
        of the material listed in the PACKING.LST text file.  If any files
        listed in the PACKING.LST text file, or the PACKING.LST file itself,
        are missing, then the package is not complete and distribution is 
        forbidden.  Please contact us to obtain a complete package suitable
        for distribution.
        
        The Stable Data Assistant - including all related program files and
        documentation files - CANNOT BE MODIFIED IN ANY WAY and must be
        distributed as a complete package.  The PACKING.LST text file 
        contains a list of all the files for Stable Data Assistant.
        
           - Small additions to the package, such as the introductory or
             installation batch files used by many shareware disk vendors,
             are acceptable.
        
        No price or other compensation may be charged for the Stable -
        Data Assistant package.  A distribution fee however may be
        charged for the cost of the diskette and shipping and handling,
        as long as the total (per disk) does not exceed $10.00 in the U.S.
        and Canada, or $15.00(US) internationally.
        
        Disk Sets & CD-ROMs:
        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
        Stable Data Assistant cannot be sold as part of some other 
        inclusive package, nor can it be included in any commercial 
        software packaging offer, without a written agreement from WINTERRA 
        Software Group, subject to the following:
        
           - ASP APPROVED VENDORS who wish to distribute the Stable Data
             Assistant package as part of a collection (such as PsL's 
             MegaDisk set, or a CD-ROM package) may do so provided
             that all the other restrictions are met.
        
           - Vendors (NON-ASP Vendor Members) who wish to distribute the
             Stable Data Assistant package as part of a collection must 
             obtain permission from WINTERRA Software Group prior to 
             beginning such a distribution.
        
        If you wish to add any of our programs to a CD-ROM or other
        collection, please check the release date of the version you have.
        If the version is over one (1) year old then please contact us to
        ensure that you have the most current version.
        
        Disk-of-the-Month (or Subscription) Distribution:
        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
        If you would like to distribute the Stable - Data Assistant
        package as a Disk-of-the-Month, or as part of a subscription or
        monthly service, then the following restrictions apply:
        
           - ASP ASSOCIATE (DISK VENDOR) MEMBERS in good standing are hereby
             given permission to distribute the Stable Data Assistant
             package under the Disk-of-the-Month style of distribution.
        
           - Others (non-ASP Members) must contact us in advance to ensure
             that you have the most current version of the software.
        
           - You cannot use a Disk-of-the-Month distribution to use up your
             inventory of old (out of date) disks.  Only current versions
             may be shipped as Disk-of-the-Month disks.
        
        Stable - Data Assistant cannot be "rented" or "leased" to others.
        
        You may not list any of our products in advertisements, catalogs,
        or other literature which describes our products as "FREE SOFTWARE".
        Shareware is "Try-Before-You-Buy" software, it is not free.
        Therefore, your literature must clearly state that our products are
        for user evaluation only, and are not free software.
        
        Licensee shall not use, copy, rent, lease, sell, modify, decompile,
        disassemble, otherwise reverse engineer, or transfer the licensed
        program except as provided in this agreement.  Any such unauthorized
        use shall result in immediate and automatic termination of this
        license.
        
        The PRINTED User's Guide may not be reproduced in whole or in part,
        using any means, without the written permission of WINTERRA
        Software Group.  In other words, the disk-based documentation may
        not be distributed in PRINTED (hardcopy) form.
        
        WINTERRA Software Group reserves the right to limit or stop the
        offering and sale of Stable - Data Assistant at any time, for
        any reason.

        Please Help Us Serve You Better:
        --------------------------------
        We would appreciate copies of anything you print regarding our
        products.  Please send us a copy of any reviews, articles, catalog 
        descriptions, or other information you print or distribute.
        Thank you for your time and assistance and for supporting the
        shareware marketing concept.

        Thank you for your support!
        
        
                             WINTERRA Software Group
                                  P.O.Box 4106
                            Highlands Ranch, CO 80126

                            Voice/Fax: (303) 470-6323
  
                                 Electronic Mail:
                              CompuServe 70244,2371
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3831

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    STABLE   ZIP    203886   7-07-93   3:36p
    GO-STRT  DAT       541   6-01-93  11:07a
    SIGORDER TXT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2329   6-01-93   2:31p
    SHAREMAG TXT      1831   6-01-93   2:32p
    CDROM    TXT      8196   6-01-93   3:26p
            9 file(s)     278855 bytes
                           37888 bytes free
