---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3776)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3776/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3776"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M,

                1 2 t h E d i t i o n



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM, winner of the Optical Publishing
Association's Best Consumer Product Award, has added a hypermedia
interface that makes it easy to find and download any type of program
you could want. The WordCruncher text retrieval program has also been
implemented to assist you insearching this vast collection.

This CD-ROM contains over 3700 fully functional shareware programs, each
with a detailed review. The 12th Edition has added over 300 new programs
and over 500 updates since the release of the 11th Edition. The
collection is always kept current and now contains over 70 megabytes of
Windows 3.0 and 3.1 applications, fonts, icons, games and wallpaper
files.

The range of software is phenomenal! There are huge assortments of
games, everything from adventure games with full SVGA and SoundBlaster
support to favorites like Klondike, Chess and Othello. Spreadsheets,
databases, wordprocessors and graphics programs are instantly available
and there are literally hundreds of unique and specialized programs that
will save you time and money. This amazing collection will help you get
a handle on all your business and home accounting and also teach your
children about zoology.

Each of the more than 3700 programs has a one-line description for quick
reference, Just pick one of the 13 software categories and a subcategory
to begin browsing for a program that interests you. You might choose the
Games Category, where you can pick from 12 subcatgories including
Adventure, Arcade, Cards and more. A mouse click (or keyboard stroke) on
the program title takes you to a detailed description of the program.
you can immediately download the software to your hard or floppy drive,
and in many cases view a screen shot.

You can find any program in the collection quickly and easily by using
the search button. When you are in a program category just type in the
title of the program and you will be taken to the description of that
program. The popular WordCruncher text retrieval program has been added
to allow searching every description for any word within that
description, not just in the title or keywords chosen by someone who
thinks differently than you do. The WordCruncher is ideal for finding
programs which perform a specific function, just try searching for
"split", "math" or "subtract". Or switch to the Disks section where you
will find an alphabetical list of all the programs which can be searched
by program title or disk number.

Everyone has their favorite programs and we're no exception. Our 44
favorite programs can be run immediately. No downloading is necessary,
all you do is click on the word "RUN" in the program description and
you'll be working or playing with top notch software right on the CD.

The power of hypermedia will allow you to try out more software than you
ever thought possible. We are sure that you will find a multitude of
programs to your liking on the P-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT PS/2 or compatible with 640K, DOS 3.3 or
higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM player. We
recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.










T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


T h e  P C - S I G   G a m e s    C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.

T h e   P C - S I G   W o r l d   o f   G a m e s   C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The new PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM contains over 550 of the best
shareware games, including 53 educational games for children and 57
Windows games. 430 of them can be played directly from the CD without
using your hard drive space.

This edition employs the award-winning HyperReader interface, allowing
easy searching and playing by using a mouse or the keyboard.

This CD is the first in a six-volume PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware
series. Each volume will include the programs from a section of the
PC-SIG collection and also the programs and text from the current issue
of Shareware Magazine. This CD contains the entire text from the
May/June issue of Shareware Magazine, featuring hardware reviews of
the Tandy Sensation and the Media Vision Pro 16 Multimedia System.
Software reviews included cover 58 new shareware releases, security,
educational, CD audio and PIM's. 159 of the programs mentioned in the
magazine are included and can be downloaded using the HyperReader
interface.

There are also 89 programs which were updated since the last issue of
Shareware Magazine, helping those of you who have purchased the 12th
edition of the PC-SIG Library keep on top of the everchanging world
of shareware.

As well, a description of every program in the PC-SIG Library can be
searched with the WordCruncher text retrieval program. This Games CD
continues the ten year PC-SIG tradition of providing quality programs
and information to help you find the best program for your purpose.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT/PS/2 or compatible computer with 640K,
DOS 3.3 or higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM
player. We recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

For Technical information: Call 408-730-9291 and ask for Technical
Support

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## INVOICE.DOC

{% raw %}
```
                                INVOICE


     We accept Visa, Mastercard, checks, and money orders.


     Remit to:                    From:
                                  __________________________
     Software Technologies,Inc.   __________________________
     P.O. Box 1933                __________________________
     Fairfield, IA 52556          __________________________
     U.S.A.                       __________________________
     phone: 1-515-472-0399
       fax: 1-515-472-4434
                                  Contact individual:
                                  __________________________
                                  __________________________
                                  __________________________



     Qty                                Unit Price     Total

     ___  Word Translator 2.0 - German   $20.00        _______

     ___  Word Translator 2.0 - Spanish  $20.00        _______

     ___  Word Translator 2.0 - Russian  $20.00        _______

     ___  Word Translator 2.0 - Danish   $20.00        _______

     ___  Word Translator 2.0-Portuguese $20.00        _______

     ___  Upgrade to Word Translator     $10.00        _______


     For site licence please call: 1-515-472-0399 or
     fax: 1-515-472-4434.

     Which other bilingual dictionary(s) would you be
     interested in?
                    1.  ____________________________
                    2.  ____________________________
                    3.  ____________________________
                    4.  ____________________________



     I use 5 1/4"________ 3 1/2 _________ disks


     Upon receipt of this paid invoice, a current disk, manual,
     and data extensions to the bilingual dictionary will be
     sent to you.
```
{% endraw %}

## MANUAL.DOC

{% raw %}
```
 


                 Copyright (c) 1992, Software Technologies, Inc.
                                 P.O. Box 1933
                           Fairfield, IA 52556, U.S.A.
                    Phone: 1-515-472-0399  Fax: 1-515-472-4434

                       Word Translator 3.0 - Danish Edition


                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                   page
             1. Introduction........................................1

             2. Installation........................................1
                 a) First Make a Backup.............................1
                 b) Hard Disk Users.................................1

             3. How to Call Word Translator.........................1
                 a) From Current Directory..........................1
                 b) From "autoexec.bat".............................1

             4. Keys................................................2
                 a) ESC.............................................2
                 b) F1-Help.........................................2
                 c) F2-Grammar......................................2
                 d) F3-Add..........................................2
                 e) F4-Delete.......................................2
                 f) PgUp/PgDn.......................................2
                 g) <return>........................................2

             5. Translation.........................................2
                  a) Translating a Word From the Screen.............2
                  b) Typing Your Own Word/Phrase....................3

             6. Adding More Translations............................4

             7. Deleting Translations...............................4

             8. Setup Menu..........................................5

             9. Spell Checking......................................5

             10. Document Translation...............................6

             11. Uninstall Word Translator..........................6

             12. New Software Versions..............................7

             13. System Requirements................................7

             14. Tutorial...........................................7
               Sample Session 1: Translate word "car"...............8
               Sample Session 2: Translate word "beautiful".........8
               Sample Session 3: Add a new translation to a word....9
               Sample Session 4: Delete a translation from a word...9
               Sample Session 5: Add a new word with translations...10
               Sample Session 6: Using the help menu................10
               Sample Session 7: Using the grammar help.............11













          1. Introduction

          Word Translator Can:
          * look up foreign words on your computer
          * save time in writing letters, reports, memos and facsimile
          * help you study for quizzes and tests
          * speed up your homework
          * help you improve your language skills

          Word Translator is a pop-up electronic bilingual dictionary.
          It can translate words from one language to another with just
          a few key strokes. Word Translator will happily work inside
          your favorite word processor.  It will translate words from
          one language much faster than you can flip the pages of your
          dictionary.

          Word Translator 3.0 - Danish Edition for shareware has
          10,000+ English to Danish translations. The end user version
          of Word Translator 3.0 - Danish Edition has 72,146
          translations from English to Danish and from Danish to
          English. To order the end user version please see the file named
          "invoice.doc".

          2. Installation

          a) First Make a Backup
             Insert the disk labeled "Word Translator" into drive a:.
             Insert a blank, formatted disk into drive b:. Type
             copy a:*.*b: <return>. Label the previously blank disk
             "Word Translator" and store the original disk in a safe
             place.

          b) Hard Disk Users
             Insert the disk labeled "Word Translator" into drive a:.
             Type a:install <return>.



          3. How to Call Word Translator

          a) From Current Directory
             Type c:\danish\danish c:\danish <return>.

          b) From "autoexec.bat"
             Install Word Translator again and when the program ask
             you: "Do you want to call Word Translator from your
             'autoexec.bat' file? (y/n)" answer with yes by pressing
             the 'y' key. For a description of what an "autoexec.bat"
             file is please refer to your DOS manual.







          _____________________________________________________________
                                      page 1








          4. Keys

                ESC - press the escape key to exit from Word Translator
                      without performing any further actions.

                 F1 - press function key number one to get a help menu.

                 F2 - press function key number two to grammar help.

                 F3 - press function key number three to add new
                      translations.

                 F4 - press function key number four to delete
                      translations.

          PgUp/PgDn - press the page up or page down keys to move up
                      or down in the current pop-up window.

           <return> - press <return> in order to chose the current
                      highlighted translation or highlighted field in
                      the help or grammar menus.



          5. Translation

          a) Translating a Word From the Screen
             First follow the instructions under the heading:
             "3. How to Call Word Translator". After making Word
             Translator memory resident load your word processor.
             Now you can either type something on the screen or you can
             load an existing file into your word processor. Position
             the cursor on top of a word or one space to the right of
             a word on the screen. Press the "Ctrl" and "Left Shift"
             keys simultaneously. The word that was under the cursor or
             one space to the left of the cursor will now appear in the
             top box of Word Translator under the heading: "Word/Phrase
             to Translate".

             The second box will have the heading: "CHOOSE
             Word/Phrase". If the word under the cursor exists in the
             dictionary then you can now press <return> to translate
             this word. If the word under the cursor does not exist
             under the cursor you can either add it to the dictionary
             by pressing F3 now or your can choose another word from
             the dictionary. In order to choose another word to be
             translated from the dictionary you can use the "PgUp" or
             "PgDn" keys to scroll up or down through words and you can








          ____________________________________________________________
                                      page 2








             use the up arrow and down arrow keys to highlight
             different words. To translate a word either press a number
             from one to five or use the up arrow and down arrow keys
             to highlight the word to translate and then press
             <return>. Press the "ESC" to exit out of Word Translator
             without choosing any of the words given.

             The pop-up window will now change displaying the heading:
             "CHOOSE Translation" in the second box from the top of the
             pop-up window. Choose a translation in the same way that
             you chose a word in the "CHOOSE Word/Phrase" box. Simply
             use the arrow up or arrow down to highlight different
             translations and then press <return> on the translation
             that you prefer. The same choice can be made by pressing a
             number between one and five.  If all the translations
             cannot fit on the screen then you will be able to use the
             "PgDn" and/or "PgUp" keys to scroll through all the
             translations for the given word. Press the "ESC" key if
             you do not want to choose any translations.


            IMPORTANT: If at any point you whish to exit out of Word
                       Translation without performing any further
                       actions simply press the "ESC" key. If after
                       pressing "ESC" you return to the previous Word
                       Translation window then press "ESC" again to
                       exit out of Word Translator without performing
                       any actions.


          b) Typing Your Own Word/Phrase
             First follow the instructions under the heading:
             "3. How to Call Word Translator". After making Word
             Translator memory resident load your word processor.
             Now you can either type something on the screen or you can
             load an existing file into your word processor. Position
             the cursor on part of the screen where there are no words
             under the cursor not any words just to the left of the
             cursor. Press the "Ctrl" and "Left Shift" keys
             simultaneously. The Word Translator window will pop-up on
             the screen with the heading: "Word/Phrase to Translate" in
             the top box. The cursor will be in this box. Now type a
             word or phrase that you would like to translate. A maximum
             of thirty four characters are allowed. You may use the
             backspace key to delete any characters in the word or
             phrase that you are typing. When you are done press
             <return>.

             The second box will have the heading: "CHOOSE
             Word/Phrase". If the word under the cursor exists in the
             dictionary then you can now press <return> to translate
             this word. If the word under the cursor does not exist
             under the cursor you can either add it to the dictionary
             by pressing F3 now or your can choose another word from


          ____________________________________________________________
                                      page 3








             the dictionary. In order to choose another word to be
             translated from the dictionary you can use the "PgUp" or
             "PgDn" keys to scroll up or down through words and you can
             use the up arrow and down arrow keys to highlight
             different words. To translate a word either press a number
             from one to five or use the up arrow and down arrow keys
             to highlight the word to translate and then press
             <return>.  Press the "ESC" to exit out of Word Translator
             without choosing any of the words given.

             The pop-up window will now change displaying the heading:
             "CHOOSE Translation" in the second box from the top of the
             pop-up window. Choose a translation in the same way that
             you chose a word in the "CHOOSE Word/Phrase" box. Simply
             use the arrow up or arrow down to highlight different
             translations and then press <return> on the translation
             that you prefer. The same choice can be made by pressing a
             number between one and five.  If all the translations
             cannot fit on the screen then you will be able to use the
             "PgDn" and/or "PgUp" keys to scroll through all the
             translations for the given word. Press the "ESC" key if
             you do not want to choose any translations.


             IMPORTANT: If at any point you whish to exit out of Word
                        Translation without performing any further
                        actions simply press the "ESC" key. If after
                        pressing "ESC" you return to the previous Word
                        Translation window then press "ESC" again to
                        exit out of Word Translator without performing
                        any actions.



          6. Adding More Translations

          If the word you have either entered or Word Translator has
          picked up from the screen is not found in the bilingual
          dictionary then you will be able to add this word/phrase to
          the dictionary together with its translations by pressing
          "F3".

          The "F3" function key is also used to add single translations
          to an existing set of translations when the second box from
          the top has the heading: "CHOOSE Translations".



          7. Deleting Translations

          When the second box from the top has the heading: "CHOOSE
          Translations" then you will be able to use the "F4" function
          key in order to delete single translations at a time from the
          existing set of translations. This done first highlighting


          ____________________________________________________________
                                      page 4








          the translation to be deleted by using the up and down arrow
          keys and then pressing "F4". You will then be asked whether
          you are sure that you want to delete the highlighted
          translation. Be sure to answer this question correctly
          because if you do not then nothing can help bring back the
          deleted translation.


          8. Setup Menu

          The setup menu is called by pressing the Alt and Right Shift
          keys simultaneously. Once these keys are pressed you will
          see the following options:

              1. Word Translation          ON

              2. Spell Checking            OFF
              3. Spell Checking Beep       OFF

              4. Document Translation      OFF

          You cannot have Word Translation ON at the same time as
          Spell Checking or Document Translation. You can have only
          one of these on at any time. If now you press 2 you will
          see that both Spell Checking and Spell Checking Beep are
          now ON. If you now press ESC to exit the setup menu spell
          checking will have been activated. The Spell Checking Beep
          option shows that Word Translator will beep every time
          a word is misspelled or it cannot find it in its bilingual
          dictionary. You may turn the beep off once Spell Checking
          has been chosen by pressing the number 3.

          The last option is Document Translation. Before activating
          this option you should first load a document that you whish
          to translate into your word processor and then position the
          cursor in your word processor on top of the first word in
          the document. Now press Alt + Right Shift in order to call
          the setup menu. Press the number 4 in order to turn
          Document Translation ON. Now press ESC to exit the setup
          menu.


          9. Spell Checking

          Word Translator 3.0 has the ability to spell check in
          two languages as you type. Every time a space is pressed
          Word Translator will see if it needs to spell check and
          if it does it will spell check the word just before the
          last space pressed. If a word is misstyped or it is not
          in the bilingual dictionary then Word Translator 3.0 will
          beep and display a window with suggested spellings. You
          may scroll up and down the window using the PgUp and PgDn
          keys and you may choose a word in order to replace the
          one just typed in your word processor. Move the highlight
          bar to the correct spelling and then press <return> or

          ____________________________________________________________
                                      page 5








          just press the number of the correct translation. This
          will replace the incorrectly spelled word with the
          correct spelling. If you type extremely fast then because
          it takes time to spell check each word some letters will
          appear of the screen with a slight delay, but no typing
          will be lost if the spelling was correct.

          To activate spell checking please follow the steps shown
          above under the heading "Setup Menu". You may deactivate
          the beep whenever you like by changing the setup menu
          which is called by pressing Alt+Right Shift. When ever
          you like you may deactivate the spell checking feature
          altogether by changing the setup menu also.



          10. Document Translation

          Document Translation enables the user to translate a whole
          document from one language to another inside your favorite
          word processor. This will not be a perfect sentence
          translation because the word order might be different in
          the two languages but it is a good first approximation to
          a valid translation and can serve a good aid in translation.
          You might find that you can use this features to translate
          most parts of the sentence and that some parts you will
          have to edit yourself. Inspite its limitation Document
          Translation, as it is now, is a good tool that can assist
          in translating documents from one language to another.

          The Document Translation feature is activated as shown under
          the heading "Setup Menu". Once it is activated Word
          Translator 3.0 will first detect the positions of the
          margins of the screen and for this purpose you will see the
          cursor whizz to the right and then back to the left. Once
          this is done the first word to be translated and highlighted
          and the well known Word Translator translation window will
          come up. At this point you can choose to translate the word
          by picking a translation or you may choose not to translate
          the word by pressing ESC or you may stop the document
          translation process by pressing F4.


          11. Uninstall Word Translator 3.0

          There might be cases when your will want to free your
          memory from Word Translator 3.0 in order to use the memory
          for some other purpose. In this version of Word Translator
          it is easy to do this. Exit your word processor so that you
          are in DOS. Press Ctrl+Alt+E keys simultaneously. The
          message: Word Translator 3.0 has been removed from memory
          will appear on the screen. Now just press <return>. This
          effectively frees the memory of your computer that was
          previously taken up by Word Translator 3.0.


          ____________________________________________________________
                                      page 6








          12. New Software Versions

          New software versions will have:

          1) More languages
          2) More words in each dictionary
          3) Several languages in one dictionary
          4) Thesaurus in both languages
          5) The user will be able to define his/her own
             hot keys
          6) More sophisticated document translation that
             will consider phrases and whole sentences
             using grammar rules, parts of speech and will do
             automatic verb conjugation.



          13. New Hardware Versions

          New hardware versions will have:

          1) The ability to have the computer speak out the word it had
             just translated so that you can learn how to pronounce the
             translated word.

          2) The ability to type a whole sentence in one language and
             have the compute automatically say this whole sentence in
             another language. This would be very useful for an
             international businessman with a notebook computer when
             talking to another businessman form a country other than
             his own.

          3) Custom made hardware, like a pocket calculator, that will
             have an LCD screen key pad, and Word Translator inside its
             ROM.


          14. System Requirements

          * IBM - PC/XT/AT, or compatible computer.
          * DOS 2.0 or greater.
          * A hard drive with at least 2.5 MB of free space.


         15. Tutorial

          We will lead you step by step through a few sample sessions
          of using Word Translator 3.0:

          Before any session make sure these two steps have been done:

          I) Follow the instructions on how to make Word Translator
             memory resident

          II) Load your word processor

          ____________________________________________________________
                                      page 7








          Sample Session 1:

          Task: Translate word "car" from your word processor screen.

          Perform and/or observe the following steps:

          1) Type a word in English. For example: "car". Press the
             "Ctrl" and "Left Shift" keys simultaneously.

          2) The Word Translator Screen will come up.

          3) Press <return>.

          4) Another Word Translator screen will come up.

          5) Press the "Down Arrow" key.

          6) Press <return>.

          7) Now the translation word "bilen" will replace the word
             "car" in your word processor.



          Sample Session 2:

          Task: Translate word "beautiful" by typing it into Word
                Translator.

          Perform and/or observe the following steps:

          1) Position the cursor on a position in your word processor
             screen where there are no words under or just to the left
             of the cursor.

          2) Press the "Ctrl" and "Left Shift" keys simultaneously.

          3) The Word Translator Screen will come up with an empty
             line under the heading: "Word/Phrase to Translate".

          4) Type the word "beautiful" and then press <return>.

          5) Another Word Translator screen will come up.

          6) Press the number "1".

          7) Now the translation word "smuk" will be put into your word
             processor at the place where your cursor was positioned in
             your word processor before calling Word Translator.







          ____________________________________________________________
                                      page 8








          Sample Session 3:

          Task: Add a new translation to an existing word.

          Perform and/or observe the following steps:

          1) Type the word "car" in your word processor. Press
             Ctrl and Left Shift simultaneously.

          2) Press <return> to choose "car".

          3) Press F3 to add a new translation.

          4) Press 'y' to say "yes" for the question: "Are you sure?".

          5) Type '1' and then press <return> for the question:
             "Number of translations :".

          6) Now type any word that you like for fun and press
             <return>.

          7) Press any key.

          8) Press Ctrl and Left Shift keys again.

          9) Press <return>.

          10) Now the new translation will be visible on the screen.



          Sample Session 4:

          Task: Delete a translation from an existing word.

          Perform and/or observe the following steps:

          1) Type the word "car" in your word processor. Press
             Ctrl and Left Shift simultaneously.

          2) Press <return> to choose "car".

          3) position highlight bar on the translation you want to
             delete. (Maybe the one you had just added in Sample
             Session 3.)

          4) Press F4 to delete the translation under the highlight
             bar.

          5) Press 'y' to answer "yes" to the question: "Are you sure?"

          6) Press any key.

          7) Press Ctrl and Left Shift keys again.


          _____________________________________________________________
                                      page 9








          8) Press <return>.

          9) Now the translation you just deleted will no longer be
             present on the screen.



          Sample Session 5:

          Task: Add a new word with a whole set of translations for
                that word.

          Perform and/or observe the following steps:

          1) Type "jabadabadu" (or a word that is not in the bilingual
             dictionary) in your word processor.

          2) Press Ctrl + Left Shift keys.

          3) Press F3 to add a new base word and its translations.

          4) Press 'y' to acknowledge action.

          5) Type '3' for "How many translations : " and then press
             <return>.

          6) Type three words of your choice for the translation of the
             word typed in Step number 1. After each word has been
             typed press <return>.

          7) Press any key.

          8) Press Ctrl + Left Shift keys.

          9) Press <return>.

          10) Now you will see the translations for the word under or
              just to the right of the cursor in your word processor.



          Sample Session 6:

          Task : Using the help menu.

          1) Press F1.

          2) Press the Up Arrow or Down Arrow keys to select a
             highlighted word. If you press <return> when a word is
             highlighted then that word will be explained in more
             detail.

          3) Press PgDn or PgUp for further help topics.

          4) Press ESC (Escape) to exit the help menu.

          ____________________________________________________________
                                      page 10








          Sample Session 7:

          Task : Using the grammar help.

          1) Press F2.

          2) Press PgDn or PgUp for further other pages.

          4) Press ESC (Escape) to exit the grammar help menu.















































          ____________________________________________________________
                                      page 11
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $19.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $39.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $5.00  ______
($5.00 is refundable with your first order)

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

The PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM                       $19.95  ______ 

The PC-SIG 12th Edition Library CD-ROM                 $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other CD-ROM just!                    $59.00  ______

The Essential Home & Business Collection CD-ROM        $39.00  ______  

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware on CD-ROM
(1 year subscription)                                  $99.00  ______


                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD: Call (800) 245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3776

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    DANTRAN  ZIP    178744   6-11-93  10:55a
    GO-STRT  DAT       541   6-01-93  11:07a
    SIGORDER TXT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2329   6-01-93   2:31p
    SHAREMAG TXT      1831   6-01-93   2:32p
    CDROM    TXT      8196   6-01-93   3:26p
            9 file(s)     253713 bytes
                           63488 bytes free
