---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3505)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3505/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3505"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
        T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This may well be the greatest collection of software ever compiled.

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM is our premier collection of the entire
PC-SIG library.  Every shareware program we have is on one disc; over
900 megabytes of software you can have immediate access to.

Easy to use, all you have to do is insert the disc and type 'INSTALL' at
the DOS prompt.  We've included all the tools you need for fast easy
access to the programs and their descriptions.

The WordCruncher text retrieval software allows you to quickly access
the description for any program you want.  All the programs are indexed
by title, filename, PC-SIG disk number, and every word within the
program description.  There couldn't be an easier way to find just the
right program.  All the programs are logically divided into thirteen
major categories with subcategories, making it easier to find just the
right software.

All of the programs have been scanned for viruses.  There are also three
online virus utilities that can be run from the CD-ROM which will scan,
screen and clean viruses.  Not only does this save hard disk space, but
also gives every user added security from viruses.

Whether you're interested in Accounting or Windows, there's a shareware
program for you on the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

Winner of the Optical Publishing Assn's Best Consumer Product Award.

Shareware for every imaginable need: Accounting Chemistry Educational
Engineering Games Hypertext Networks Programming Spreadsheets Utilities
Word Processing

Additional BBS file descriptions are available from PC-SIG so that the
CD-ROM can be set up quickly on a bulletin board.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 530K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
a graphics monitor (Hercules/EGA/VGA/SVGA).  A mouse is optional.





T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


                      The PC-SIG Games CD-ROM
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.


To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## README.TXT

{% raw %}
```




                                  SDI2040
                          
                                What is it?
                            How do you play it?
                         Benefits of Registration?

    What is it?

        In the simplest sense, SDI2040 is an Invaders-like arcade game
        with a twist or two.  It is available for both the Macintosh II
        and IBM PC compatible line of personal computers, with both 
        versions having digitized sound (PC version requires Soundblaster
        for digitized sound) and full-color graphics (VGA required for
        PC version).  SDI2040 is also much more.  It is our friendly
        attempt to introduce the world (or even a small subset of the
        world) to EAST WING SOFTWARE, a company we hope you will be 
        hearing much more from in the future.  We are very small, just a
        Mac-guy and a PC-guy who have played computer games since they 
        were brand new.  Now we want to use our experience programming
        graphics systems and playing computer games to do something really
        productive, bring you quality computer entertainment at very
        reasonable prices.  SDI2040 is our way of letting you know.

    How do you play it?

        SDI2040 is as classic and simple as a computer game gets.  The
        aliens (aka invaders, creatures, etc.) are BAD, BAD.   They are
        invading our beloved planet and our only hope is to use the old,
        forgotten Strategic Defense Initiative hardware left over from
        a 20th Century republic known as the United States of America.
        Your job is to use the SDI cannon to destroy wave upon wave of
        these god-less creatures (A violent goal, yes, but simple.) 
        The invaders have a few surprises for you, so be ready.  All the
        keyboard definitions and other related documentation can be 
        found in the file SDI.DOC included with this distribution.

    Benefits of Registration?

        At EAST WING SOFTWARE we want to make contact with YOU, and that
        is what registration of SDI2040 is all about.  We would really
        like to hear from you, so we want you to register, whether you
        send the small registration fee or not.  If you don't send
        the fee, we will still appreciate any comments or suggestions
        that you have and we will place you on our mailing list.  If you
        do enclose the modest fee, we will send you a disk with the 
        latest version of SDI2040 along with enhanced digitized sounds.
        You will also be placed on our mailing list and will be notified 
        in advance of future releases and will be eligible to become beta
        testers for future releases.  (Our current project is a 3D space
        combat game with a plot that is both unique and exciting.)  The
        registration form is the file SDIREGIS.DOC and is complete with
        full instructions on the registration process.  Another way to
        register SDI2040 is to purchase the full C source code for the
        game.  This is an option that provides additional incentive to 
        anyone who would like to explore the techniques required to 
        produce smooth animation, game logic, sound, etc.  The fee is
        still small and includes all the aforementioned registration
        benefits.  Finally, if you just want to leave your address, a
        quick comment or question, you can E-mail us on America Online.
        Our screen name is EastWing.  Whichever method you choose, we
        sincerely look forward to hearing from you.

    Disclaimers and Necessary Legal Stuff

        SDI2040 is provided "AS IS", with no warranty, implied or otherwise,
        regarding fitness or merchantability for any given purpose.  Under
        no circumstances will East Wing Software or the authors be liable
        for any loss, addiction, or other damage associated with the use
        of this software, including but not limited to incidental, 
        consequential, special or other damages.  The full responsibilities
        and risks of having fun with this program are yours.

        TRANSLATION

        This is a simple game that we are providing as shareware, bottom
        line.  Since this game has been a quick project to get in touch
        with potential customers for our future games, there are probably
        bugs.  If there are, we would like to know about them.  We might
        even fix them.  We have purposely left out a lot of features that
        we would normally include in a piece of entertainment software.
        Things like joystick support, better sound from the PC speaker,
        expanded memory support, better art-work, music, etc. will all be
        included in future products, but were beyond the scope of this
        project.  If you would like to add them yourself, send for the 
        source code.  SDI2040 was tested on a Gateway 2000 386-25 and a
        Mac IIsi.  It runs fine under DOS 4.01 and 5.0 on the PC and 
        System 6.07 and 7.0 on the Mac.  We weren't able to test it on
        any other platforms, so if you have problems with yours, again
        send for the source code and tweak it for your environment.
        With all that in mind, we want you to enjoy SDI2040, but we just
        can't accept any responsibility for any problems it might cause.


                                    James Mayes  (PC Development)
                                    Hank Burns   (Mac Development)
                                    East Wing Software
                                    P.O. Box 1735
                                    Clarksville, VA 23927
                                    
                                    AOL:  EastWing
```
{% endraw %}

## SDI.DOC

{% raw %}
```




                                  SDI.DOC

        SDI2040 is distributed under the shareware principle.  You may
        make as many copies as you like and distribute those copies
        to anyone you chose as long as all the files contained in this
        distribution are included.  The following is a list of files 
        that should be included:

                SDI2040.EXE             The program executable
                SDI2040.DOC             This file
                SDIREGIS.DOC            Registration form
                README.TXT              SDI2040 overview and information
                S0.BIN - S6.BIN         Game data
                P1.DAT - P3.DAT         Game data

        If any of these files are missing, contact EAST WING
        SOFTWARE at the address below.  Please help support our 
        future shareware efforts by supporting this one.  See the 
        README.TXT file for information on our very flexible and
        reasonable registration policy for SDI2040.  SDI2040 is 
        protected under the copyright laws of the United States of
        America.  East Wing Software reserves all rights provided
        by these laws.
        
        To run SDI2040, make sure that all the files are on the
        same disk and in the same directory and type:

                    SDI2040
        
        There will be a brief introduction followed immediately by
        the first wave of aliens.

        There aren't many rules for playing SDI2040.  Just shoot 
        everything, because it will invariably be trying to shoot 
        you.  If the Aliens reach the platform, you're history too.
        The keyboard definitions are as follows:

                MOVE LEFT                   F, <LEFT ARROW>
                STOP CANNON                 G, <DOWN ARROW>
                MOVE RIGHT                  H, <RIGHT ARROW>
                FIRE CANNON                 <SPACE>
                PAUSE                       P
                SOUND TOGGLE                S
                BOSS MODE                   B
                ABORT GAME                  <ESC>
                SET CANNON SPEED            1 - 4, (1=slowest, 4=fastest)
                INCREASE INVADER SPEED      +  (Plus key)
                DECREASE INVADER SPEED      -  (Minus Key)
                RESET INVADER SPEED         R

        We would normally make these keys configurable, but as mentioned
        in the README.TXT file, we have intentionally left some features
        out of this introductory game.  If you would like to change these
        key definitions, please see the README.TXT file for details
        on how you may obtain the full C source code to SDI2040.
        Enjoy!!!!

        P.S.  We have only been able to get around 60,000 points playing 
              SDI2040.  If you do better, let us know.

                            East Wing Software
                            James Mayes (PC Development)
                            Hank Burns (Mac Development)
                            P.O. Box 1735
                            Clarksville, VA  23927
                            America Online:  EastWing
```
{% endraw %}

## SDIREGIS.DOC

{% raw %}
```
                              
                       SDI2040 v1.1: Shareware Registration
                              
      Register today to receive all the benefits described in README.TXT 
              Purchase of C Source Code includes full registration

                              East Wing Software        
                             Post Office Box 1735
                            Clarksville, VA   23927
                             
                           America Online: EastWing 


Quantity                                           Price        Total
______________________________________________________________________________

________ SDI2040 Registration (PC Version)       $  2.75     _______.___

________ SDI2040 Registration (Mac Version)      $  2.75     _______.___

________ SDI2040 C Source Code (PC Version)      $  5.00     _______.___
         (includes registration fee)

________ SDI2040 C Source Code (Mac Version)     $  5.00     _______.___
         (includes registration fee)

                                                 Subtotal    _______.___

________ PC Version add $1.00 for 3.5 disk                   _______.___

                                              Order Total    _______.___

    Please enclose check or money order drawn on US Bank for full amount.
    Canadian Postal Money Order in US Dollars or International Bank
    draft also accepted.


Ship To:     Name  ______________________________________________

          Address  ______________________________________________

             City  _______________________ State ____ Zip _______

            Phone  _______________________

        Would you like to be on our list of potential Beta Testers? ______

        Would you like to receive advanced notice of new products?  ______


```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $14.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $34.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $7.00  ______

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

GAMES CD Amazing Disk - Amazing Price!                 $25.00  ______

*** PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM 12th Edition  ***         $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other shareware CD-ROM just           $59.00  ______

                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD call (800)245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3505

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    SDI2040  ZIP    176827   3-19-93   6:42p
    SIGORDER TXT      3090   3-10-93   3:22p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3090   3-10-93   3:22p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     23528   3-15-90   1:10a
    PCSIG    TXT      2335   2-10-93   8:50a
    SHAREMAG TXT      1837   1-21-92   6:11a
    CDROM    TXT      4874   3-18-93   1:28p
    GO-STRT  DAT       539   3-22-93  10:48a
            9 file(s)     242142 bytes
                           75776 bytes free
