---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3669)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3669/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3669"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M,

                1 2 t h E d i t i o n



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM, winner of the Optical Publishing
Association's Best Consumer Product Award, has added a hypermedia
interface that makes it easy to find and download any type of program
you could want. The WordCruncher text retrieval program has also been
implemented to assist you insearching this vast collection.

This CD-ROM contains over 3700 fully functional shareware programs, each
with a detailed review. The 12th Edition has added over 300 new programs
and over 500 updates since the release of the 11th Edition. The
collection is always kept current and now contains over 70 megabytes of
Windows 3.0 and 3.1 applications, fonts, icons, games and wallpaper
files.

The range of software is phenomenal! There are huge assortments of
games, everything from adventure games with full SVGA and SoundBlaster
support to favorites like Klondike, Chess and Othello. Spreadsheets,
databases, wordprocessors and graphics programs are instantly available
and there are literally hundreds of unique and specialized programs that
will save you time and money. This amazing collection will help you get
a handle on all your business and home accounting and also teach your
children about zoology.

Each of the more than 3700 programs has a one-line description for quick
reference, Just pick one of the 13 software categories and a subcategory
to begin browsing for a program that interests you. You might choose the
Games Category, where you can pick from 12 subcatgories including
Adventure, Arcade, Cards and more. A mouse click (or keyboard stroke) on
the program title takes you to a detailed description of the program.
you can immediately download the software to your hard or floppy drive,
and in many cases view a screen shot.

You can find any program in the collection quickly and easily by using
the search button. When you are in a program category just type in the
title of the program and you will be taken to the description of that
program. The popular WordCruncher text retrieval program has been added
to allow searching every description for any word within that
description, not just in the title or keywords chosen by someone who
thinks differently than you do. The WordCruncher is ideal for finding
programs which perform a specific function, just try searching for
"split", "math" or "subtract". Or switch to the Disks section where you
will find an alphabetical list of all the programs which can be searched
by program title or disk number.

Everyone has their favorite programs and we're no exception. Our 44
favorite programs can be run immediately. No downloading is necessary,
all you do is click on the word "RUN" in the program description and
you'll be working or playing with top notch software right on the CD.

The power of hypermedia will allow you to try out more software than you
ever thought possible. We are sure that you will find a multitude of
programs to your liking on the P-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT PS/2 or compatible with 640K, DOS 3.3 or
higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM player. We
recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.










T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


T h e  P C - S I G   G a m e s    C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.

T h e   P C - S I G   W o r l d   o f   G a m e s   C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The new PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM contains over 550 of the best
shareware games, including 53 educational games for children and 57
Windows games. 430 of them can be played directly from the CD without
using your hard drive space.

This edition employs the award-winning HyperReader interface, allowing
easy searching and playing by using a mouse or the keyboard.

This CD is the first in a six-volume PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware
series. Each volume will include the programs from a section of the
PC-SIG collection and also the programs and text from the current issue
of Shareware Magazine. This CD contains the entire text from the
May/June issue of Shareware Magazine, featuring hardware reviews of
the Tandy Sensation and the Media Vision Pro 16 Multimedia System.
Software reviews included cover 58 new shareware releases, security,
educational, CD audio and PIM's. 159 of the programs mentioned in the
magazine are included and can be downloaded using the HyperReader
interface.

There are also 89 programs which were updated since the last issue of
Shareware Magazine, helping those of you who have purchased the 12th
edition of the PC-SIG Library keep on top of the everchanging world
of shareware.

As well, a description of every program in the PC-SIG Library can be
searched with the WordCruncher text retrieval program. This Games CD
continues the ten year PC-SIG tradition of providing quality programs
and information to help you find the best program for your purpose.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT/PS/2 or compatible computer with 640K,
DOS 3.3 or higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM
player. We recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

For Technical information: Call 408-730-9291 and ask for Technical
Support

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## MANUAL.DOC

{% raw %}
```

			   H A N G M A N    J R.

			       for Windows

			    Copyright (c) 1992


 DESCRIPTION:

 Hangman Jr. is a spelling game for kids ranging from  5 - 9 years old.
 It features the ability to present a picture to give the child a hint
 rather than a sentence, which may be confusing, considering that this
 is a game designed to help them learn to read.

 Essentially, Hangman Jr. presents a graphics image (which can range from
 a clip art picture to a photo of Uncle Bob) and the child can choose
 letters from the alphabet (presented at the top of the window) until the
 name of the image is correctly spelled. At this point the child is
 rewarded with a pretty picture proclaiming that he or she is a wonderful
 speller.

 Unlike conventional Hangman games, there is no penalty for not getting a
 letter correct. Indeed, there is NO NEGATIVE REINFORCEMENT at all in this
 game, so there is no undue pressure for your child to "get it right." If
 the child chooses a "wrong" letter, for instance, it simply migrates over
 to the TrashCan icon and 'dumps' itself. As with conventional hangman,
 the letters already chosen are not usable, and the word is written on the
 screen so that the child can see it forming...

 We did not include underscores ( __ ) to the letters as we felt it would
 be confusing to younger children. In the example file, for instance, we
 have a LEOPARD. Now, that's a tall order for a 6 year old to get that
 one, and we didn't feel comfortable putting 7 underscores on screen so
 that the child may feel overwhelmed. Even so, our test crew of 5 and 6
 year olds were able to get it correct (even if it took a while...) and
 were quite proud of themselves (and justifiably so) for doing so.

 In short, Hangman Jr. is a reasonable vehicle for allowing children to
 associate words with accompanying pictures, without pressure.


 FEATURES:

 The files used by Hangman Jr. can be modified, added to, and otherwise
 easily manipulated by Mom & Dad. Hangman Jr. files are denoted by a .HJF
 extension, and they are simply a list of words and associated pictures.
 There's built-in file Creator / Editor for this purpose. The nice thing
 about this is that you are not limited in any way to the files we
 provide, or a limit of files at all. Hangman Jr. can work with ANY
 number of data files. The only limit you have is data storage.

 Each file, as it is OPENed by Hangman Jr., is randomised. If a child
 likes a particular subject, for instance, he or she is not presented
 with the list in the same order every time, even if the same file is
 OPENed time after time. Try OPENing the example ANIMALS file a few
 times to see this.

 The window was designed such that the child using it has a minimum of
 items on screen, which can be confusing. The NEXT button, for instance,
 will grab the next available word/picture immediately.



 OPERATION:

 The design of Hangman Jr. tries to keep things as simple for Mom & Dad
 as for the intended 5 - 9 year old user. For instance, there are only
 2 menu items: FILE and MANUAL. The File menu allows you to edit, create,
 and otherwise manipulate data files. The MANUAL menu allows you to read
 this text while the program is running.

 Let's look at the FILE submenu:

 NEW:

 This item allows you to create a NEW file from scratch. You will be
 asked to enter a filename, such as ANIMALS. You are then put into the
 EDIT window. Essentially, editing is simple: you choose a graphics
 filename from the upper right hand list by clicking the name. The
 graphics files can have *.BMP or *.WMF extensions. BMP is the standard
 Windows BitMaP format, while WMF is the Windows MetaFile format. The
 name you chose will appear in the GRAPHICS FILE textbox. You then enter
 the name the child will spell in the ENTER WORDS HERE textbox. Click the
 ADD Button, and the spelling word will be ADDED to the DropDown list of
 words. To verify that a Word is associated with the correct graphics
 file, choose the word from the DropDown list. The associated graphics
 filename will appear in the GRAPHICS FILE text box. Deleting a word is
 similar: click the DELETE button instead of the ADD button.

 You can also make sure that a graphics image is the one you THINK it is
 before you ADD it to the list: just choose a graphics file from the list
 box (its' name will appear in the GRAPHICS FILE textbox) and then click
 the IMAGE PREVIEW button.

 When you are finished, click the DONE button. The last step you need to
 do is SAVE the edited file. See SAVE and SAVE AS below.

 OPEN:

 You will be presented with a standard windows FILEOPEN dialog box. You
 can choose the disk drive and the directory; the list of valid *.HJF
 files will appear in the left hand listbox. Click the name of choice
 and choose OK, or DOUBLECLICK the filename.

 This file will now be used by Hangman Jr. It may be up to 500 words
 long, but no more than that.

 SAVE:

 This choice saves the current data file, such as one you have just
 finished editing or creating. It saves it in the current directory and
 under the same name as OPENed for editing or CREATED with.

 SAVE AS:

 Allows you to save the current data file BUT using a different name than
 it was OPENed or CREATED with. You will be asked to enter a filename.
 DO NOT APPEND A DOS EXTENSION. Hangman Jr. WILL DO THIS FOR YOU!

 EDIT:

 EDIT will allow you to edit an EXISTING FILE. Like the FILE OPEN
 description, choose the file you wish to edit. See NEW above for
 instructions on the EDIT window.

 ABOUT:

 Tells you who we are and how we can be reached, and you revision number.

 EXIT:

 Quits Hangman Jr.


 MANUAL submenu:

 READ / PRINT MANUAL:

 Allows you to read this manual on-line (like if you're learning how to
 edit) or print it as you require. If you want it on-line, you can either
 place the MANUAL window in the background or minimize it to an ICON as
 you desire. You place it in the background by clicking the Hangman Jr
 window, (which makes the program active) and you put it in the
 foreground (making the program wait) by clicking the manual window.


 FILL / PRINT ORDER FORM:

 Gee, we'd really like to hear from you, so we reckoned you'd say hello
 if we made it a little easier...



 NOTES:

 The reinforcement images (the ones that come up when a child gets the
 word spelled) are listed as W1.BMP - W4.BMP. These may be edited by you
 but PLEASE keep the same names, and don't delete any. You may edit these
 by using WIndows PAINTBRUSH or a similar program.


 SHAREWARE:

 Hangman Jr. is shareware. Shareware is not a TYPE of software; rather,
 it is a form of distribution / marketing. Essentially, it is a method
 by which you can obtain and evaluate fully functional software at your
 leisure and THEN decide whether or not it is worth purchasing. Like the
 software on your local retail shelves, this is a copyrighted program.

 Now, of course, we would like you to buy this software. Let's talk about
 that. Hangman Jr. sells for $14. Now we know that you paid SOMETHING to
 get it. If you purchase Hangman Jr. we will discount up to $4 off of the
 price, based on what you had to pay for a disk from a shareware disk
 vendor. No need to ask you to PAY to evaluate it, is there? Just send us
 a copy of a receipt showing us the purchase price. If you spent money
 to download Hangman Jr. from one of the big "pay" BBS's like GEnie or
 COMPUSERVE, send us a printout of your download time estimate from your
 comm program.

 We'll also ship a collection of over 200 images (most in colour) that
 will help you get started on building a dictionary for your child. The
 pictures include foods, household items, images from around the world,
 and some more animals that kids can recognise. ( This set is very large
 and cannot be distributed well via shareware channnels. )

 Purchase of Hangman Jr. will also get you the latest copy of the
 program, and, of course, the UNLICENSED COPY tag will be removed. In
 addition, you'll also recieve discounts on other Alston Software Labs
 products; We'll send you a catalogue. You may be surprised at what we
 have to offer.


       //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NOTE: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

	     Updates and ASL new releases can be found on
		     The Collector's Forum BBS
			 (619) 463 - 9222      ALL BAUD RATES!


       //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////


       ********************** "Fine Print" Section *******************

    Disclaimer:

    Hangman Jr. is supplied as-is with no warranty whatsoever with
    regard to merchantability or fitness for purpose. Alston Software
    Labs assumes no responsibility for any consequences of use or
    misuse of this program.





















```
{% endraw %}

## VENDOR.DOC

{% raw %}
```

		      Attention Disk Vendors and SysOps:

   This file contains the descriptions for catalogue and BBS use, as well
   as the program requirements of Hangman Jr.



   REQUIREMENTS:

   Windows 3.0 or Windows 3.1
   VBRUN100.DLL
   Hard Drive with 1 Meg free

   Note:

   Hangman Jr. runs only in '386 Enhanced' or 'Standard' modes. It will
   not run in 'Real' mode.

   RECOMMENDED:

   286 or better with 1 Meg RAM, 2 Meg HD space free.


   RECOMMENDED BBS FILENAME:  HANGJR1.ZIP

   RECOMMENDED CATALOGUE DESCRIPTION NAME:  Kids GRAPHICAL Hangman Game for
					    Windows

   CATALOGUE / BBS SHORT DESCRIPTION:

   HANGJR1.ZIP

   Hangman Jr.: Kids GRAPHICAL Hangman game for Windows


   CATALOGUE / BBS LONG DESCRIPTION:

   Using POSITIVE REINFORCEMENT techniques only,
   this educational game is targeted at 5 to 9
   year olds. IMAGES are placed on screen as the
   representation of what the child needs to
   spell. The child is rewarded with each correct
   spelling, and he or she CANNOT get it wrong.
   Users can create/edit WORD/IMAGE list files
   as needed.

   ******************************************************************

   BBS NOTES:

   If you're a SysOp, you are free to archive Hangman Jr. in the archive
   format of your judgement. As with disk vendors, you may break Hangman Jr.
   into more manageable DL sizes, but we prefer that you put EXE's/docs in
   one archive and IMAGES in another.

   *******************************************************************

   INSTALLATION NOTES FOR VENDORS:

   Hangman Jr. does not include a standard installation program, as
   we do not have control over the media of distribution (i.e. we can't
   standardize a Win3 install unless we can standardize the media.)
   Also, a Win3 SETUP.EXE would also consume disk space more than
   what is being taken up now.

   If you are a disk vendor, you may include any install routine
   required, such as a batch file, etc. All that is required is to
   put Hangman Jr. in a single subdirectory of it's own. It does not
   need to modify the WIN.INI file.

   If you are distributing on 360k media (or images), you are free
   to archive as you see best, providing that Hangman Jr. is distributed
   in it's entirity. We would prefer you to put the EXE's/docs on one
   disk and IMAGES on another such that the user can install easier.

   *********************************************************************
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $19.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $39.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $5.00  ______
($5.00 is refundable with your first order)

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

The PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM                       $19.95  ______ 

The PC-SIG 12th Edition Library CD-ROM                 $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other CD-ROM just!                    $59.00  ______

The Essential Home & Business Collection CD-ROM        $39.00  ______  

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware on CD-ROM
(1 year subscription)                                  $99.00  ______


                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD: Call (800) 245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3669

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    HNGMANJR ZIP    105032   7-13-93  10:59a
    GO-STRT  DAT       541   6-01-93  11:07a
    SIGORDER TXT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2329   6-01-93   2:31p
    SHAREMAG TXT      1831   6-01-93   2:32p
    CDROM    TXT      8196   6-01-93   3:26p
            9 file(s)     180001 bytes
                          137216 bytes free
