---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3691)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3691/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3691"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
        T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This may well be the greatest collection of software ever compiled.

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM is our premier collection of the entire
PC-SIG library.  Every shareware program we have is on one disc; over
900 megabytes of software you can have immediate access to.

Easy to use, all you have to do is insert the disc and type 'INSTALL' at
the DOS prompt.  We've included all the tools you need for fast easy
access to the programs and their descriptions.

The WordCruncher text retrieval software allows you to quickly access
the description for any program you want.  All the programs are indexed
by title, filename, PC-SIG disk number, and every word within the
program description.  There couldn't be an easier way to find just the
right program.  All the programs are logically divided into thirteen
major categories with subcategories, making it easier to find just the
right software.

All of the programs have been scanned for viruses.  There are also three
online virus utilities that can be run from the CD-ROM which will scan,
screen and clean viruses.  Not only does this save hard disk space, but
also gives every user added security from viruses.

Whether you're interested in Accounting or Windows, there's a shareware
program for you on the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

Winner of the Optical Publishing Assn's Best Consumer Product Award.

Shareware for every imaginable need: Accounting Chemistry Educational
Engineering Games Hypertext Networks Programming Spreadsheets Utilities
Word Processing

Additional BBS file descriptions are available from PC-SIG so that the
CD-ROM can be set up quickly on a bulletin board.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 530K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
a graphics monitor (Hercules/EGA/VGA/SVGA).  A mouse is optional.





T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


                      The PC-SIG Games CD-ROM
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.


To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## README.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                Looking for Work
                   An Interactive Guide to Marketing Yourself
                                  version 2.0
             Copyright (c) 1987, 1988, 1992, 1993 InterDigital, Inc.
                        Suggested BBS name: WORK2

                     A shareware program from InterDigital
                       Dr. Frank L. Greenagel, publisher
                       25 Water Street, Lebanon, NJ 08833 
                      (908) 832 2463 * fax (908) 832 6081
                            CompuServe # 76526,3606


     ------------------------------------------------------------------
                             General Description
     ------------------------------------------------------------------

      Looking for Work is an interactive guide for professionals and
      managers seeking to change or find employment. It is a step-by-step
      aid in planning and mounting an effective marketing campaign. It
      contains six units and almost two dozen worksheets, checklists and
      models to structure and guide the search for a new job.

      The program's theme is that a job search is a marketing campaign -
      one that requires planning, analysis, targeted markets, and
      commitment to a schedule of tasks and activities. Using sound training
      principles, the program provides an introduction to a job search, a
      substantial amount of guidance in analyzing one's "natural" market,
      and considerable direction and structure in carrying out the many
      tasks and activities of an efficient campaign. It not only shows one
      how to go about it but through a series of exercises and worksheets,
      takes the user through the process. When that user completes the
      program, he/she will have a list of potential employers, a resume, a
      core marketing letter, and will be well-prepared for job interviews. 

     --------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                  Directions
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------

     To start the program, type WORK, then hit <Enter>. The program will
     ask you to sign in. When you finish a unit and exit, your progress
     will be stored in a file. When you sign in subsequently, the program  
     will take you directly to the next unit, or to a menu.

     If you wish to run the program from your hard disk, you must use a
     text editor to make a change in the CONFIG file. In line 16 of that
     file, you need to insert the path (drive and directory) where you
     have copied the program. For example, if you copy the files to the 
     "STUFF" directory on your C drive, line 16 of the config file should 
     look like this: C:\STUFF. Save this as an ASCII file and start the
     program. If you do not make this change, you will get an error message
     saying the program can't find the CNT file.


     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Target audience, Objectives & Content
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------

       Target audience: The intended audience consists of professional and
       managerial personnel who are seeking to change jobs or who have
       been laid-off or fired. Many have never been through a job search
       before and need substantial help on even the most basic tasks and
       activities. Others may have changed jobs several times, but need a
       systematic approach and step-by-step guidance. Most people put too
       much emphasis on the resume and not enough on networking and on a
       series of marketing letters. Almost nobody prepares adequately for
       interviews, which is the most crucial step in the process.

       Objectives: Users will be able to organize and carry out an effective
       job search campaign, including in-depth analysis of work history,
       a solid core resume & marketing letters sent to appropriately targeted
       prospective employers, and preparation for detailed interviews. Users
       will analyze their own financial situation and work history, and will
       readily identify industries and firms which represent the highest
       likelihood of a match with the job specifications.

       Specifically, the program will:
       1) Assist the user in developing a personalized plan, including a 
          time-table and specific activities;

       2) Review and analyze the user's financial resources, time frame and   
          other constraints; 

       3) Provide step-by-step guidelines, checklists and criteria for
          developing lists of target companies and other sources;

       4) Provide forms, information and guidance in preparing a detailed
          employment history;

       5) Step-by-step instructions in preparing industry-specific resumes 
          and marketing letters;
  
       6) Week-by-week lists of tasks and activities, and milestones with
          which to assess progress.
  
       Program features:
       Multi-track: Because the strategy and timing are likely to differ for
       people in different circumstances, the program queries the user and
       directs him or her to a track based on the following information: age,
       income, current employment status, motivating factors, willingness to
       relocate, and level in the organization.
      
      Structured activities, analysis & guidelines: The program uses a variety
      of worksheets, checklists and exercises, creative instructional
      techniques to guide an analysis of his/her personal situation, a very 
      detailed work history, systematic listing (using SIC codes) of related 
      industries and firms, and step-by-step instructions on the preparation 
      of the core resume and several marketing letters.

      While most users will proceed through the program in linear fashion,
      experienced job hunters can use the software as a reference work,
      skipping some sections to concentrate on areas where they need help.


   ---------------------------------------------------------------------  
                                 DISCLAIMER                                                
   --------------------------------------------------------------------- 

       Users of Looking for Work must accept this disclaimer of warranty: 
       "Looking for Work" is supplied as is. The author disclaims all 
       warranties, expressed or implied, including without limitation, 
       the warranties of merchantability and of fitness for any purpose. 
       The author assumes no liability for damages, direct or consequen-
       tial, which may result from the use of Looking for Work.                    
                                  

   ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                             OTHER INFORMATION
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------

   Looking for Work is a shareware program and is provided at no charge  
   to the user for limited evaluation. You may share it with friends, 
   but please do not give it away altered or as part of another system. 
   The essence of user-supported software is to provide personal       
   computer users with quality software without high prices, and yet to 
   provide incentive for programmers to continue to develop new products. 
   
   If you use this program beyond a cursory examination, you should feel
   honor-bound to make the $29 registration payment. The registration fee 
   will license one copy for use on any one computer at any one time. Pay-          
   ment of that fee will bring you two additional lessons:  (1) using 
   on-line resume banks and job databases and, (2) preparing for interviews.
                                                        
   You must treat this software just like a book. An example is that this 
   software may be used by any number of people and may be freely moved 
   from one computer location to another, so long as there is no possibil-
   ity of it being used at one location while it's being used at another --    
   just as a book cannot be read by two different persons at the same time.    
                                                               
   Commercial users (outplacement firms, employers, etc.) of Looking for Work 
   must register and obtain a site license within 30 days of first use if 
   they intend to use or distribute copies of Looking for Work, or this 
   examination license is withdrawn. A site-license is available to career
   consulting and outplacement firms at a one-time fee of $2,500. Members 
   of the International Association of Career Consulting Firms are entitled 
   to additional benefits. For information, write or phone InterDigital.           
    
   Anyone distributing Looking for Work for any kind of remuneration must 
   contact InterDigital for authorization. This authorization will be 
   granted automatically to distributors recognized by the ASP as adhering to 
   its guidelines for shareware distributors, and such distributors may begin 
   offering Looking for Work immediately. (However, InterDigital must still 
   be advised so that the distributor can be kept up-to-date with the latest 
   version of Looking for Work.)       
    
                                                               
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                               LIST of FILES
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------

             These files make up the Looking for Work program:

             WORK.EXE        The "engine" that drives the program
             CONFIG          Enables one to adjust to different hardware
             MOD#n.LSN       Content files for each unit
             MOD#n.CNT       Directory for each unit
             WORK.LSN        The inital module in the program
             WORK.CNT        The contents directory for the first module


   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                            BENEFITS of REGISTRATION
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------  

   Educational programs are like games -- few users bother to pay the 
   registration fee, no matter how modest it is. As an incentive to do so, 
   InterDigital will send a registered copy (without "beg" screens) which
   includes two additional lessons: (1) Making use of on-line job banks and
   modifying your resume for computer-based resume databases; (2) Preparing
   for interviews. There is material in this version on getting ready for
   interviews, but work with several career consulting firms during the 
   year enabled us to enrich it enormously -- to the point where it is now
   a separate unit loaded with practical advice and activities for the 
   serious applicant.

   Employers and providers of outplacement and career counseling services
   may find that the program saves them substantial time and introduces a
   high measure of consistency and professionalism in dealing with clients.
   They may wish to have InterDigital customize the program with their
   firm's name and with other information. Any commercial use of Looking
   for Work without payment of a licensing fee is a violation of copyright.  
   InterDigital will customize the program for outplacement and career
   counseling firms and employers for a modest fee.


   ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 Registration
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------

   Mail to:      InterDigital
                 25 Water Street
                 Lebanon, NJ 08833
                 Phone: (908) 832 2463  Fax: (908) 832 6081


   Name: __________________________________________

   Address: _______________________________________

            _______________________________________

            _______________________________________


   ____    REGISTRATION (Single copy, includes shipping & handling)
           $31.75 (Check in U.S. funds)
  
           Call for multiple user license and discount

   Media:  __ 3½ diskette  __ 5¼ diskette

   Who provided your copy of Looking for Work? ______________________

   ____    Check here if you are interested in receiving information about
           a version of this program designed for recent college graduates.

   ____    Check here if you are interested in a similar program on career
           management. 


```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $14.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $34.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $7.00  ______

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

GAMES CD Amazing Disk - Amazing Price!                 $25.00  ______

*** PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM 12th Edition  ***         $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other shareware CD-ROM just           $59.00  ______

                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD call (800)245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3691

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    WORK     ZIP    209192   5-21-93  10:03a
    README   TXT     12933   3-21-93   2:13p
    GO-STRT  DAT       540   1-06-93   4:57p
    SIGORDER TXT      3090   3-10-93   3:22p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3090   3-10-93   3:22p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     23528   3-15-90   1:10a
    PCSIG    TXT      2335   2-10-93   8:50a
    SHAREMAG TXT      1837   1-21-92   6:11a
    CDROM    TXT      4874   3-18-93   1:28p
           10 file(s)     287441 bytes
                           29696 bytes free
