---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3428)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3428/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3428"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
        T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This may well be the greatest collection of software ever compiled.

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM is our premier collection of the entire
PC-SIG library.  Every shareware program we have is on one disc; over
700 megabytes of software you can have immediate access to.

Easy to use, all you have to do is insert the disc and type 'GO' at the
DOS prompt.  We've included all the tools you need for fast easy access
to the programs and their descriptions.

The WordCruncher text retrieval software allows you to quickly access
the description for any program you want.  All the programs are indexed
by title, filename, PC-SIG disk number, and every word within the
program description.  There couldn't be an easier way to find just the
right program.

The Narc utility, newly instituted with the tenth edition, allows you to
look directly at all the compressed program files on the CD without
having to download the program to your hard disk.  So if you want to
look at the programmer's notes or on-line documentation before using
valuable hard disk space, you can.

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware is included on the disk, and a
printed copy of the book is included so you can peruse the available
programs from the comfort of your favorite chair.  All the programs are
logically divided into one-hundred twenty categories making it easier to
find just the right software.

Whether you're interested in Accounting or Windows, there's a shareware
program for you on the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

Winner of the Optical Publishing Assn's Best Consumer Product Award.

Shareware for every imaginable need: Accounting Chemistry Educational
Engineering Games Hypertext Networks Programming Spreadsheets Utilities
Word Processing

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.





T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed

by title, filename, PC-SIG disk number, and every word in the program
description.  A new utility, Narc, is implemented so you can look at the
program files and the author's on-line documentation without having to
first copy the program to your hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and
Narc, you can quickly find the program you want and review it to be
sure, without ever having to run it from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.

```
{% endraw %}

## EIW.DOC

{% raw %}
```
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                   E N C R Y P T - I T   F O R   W I N D O W S
        
        
        
        
        
                                  Version 1.xx
        
                                Reference Manual
        
        
        
        
               Encryption, decryption, and cryptanalysis program.
              Supporting the secure Data Encryption Standard (DES).
        
        Context sensitive help and on-line manual make it easy!
        Encrypt-It for Windows is user supported software (Shareware).
        If you use it past the initial 15 day evaluation period, you are
        required to register it.  No exceptions!
        
        Registered Users: Your serial number can be found on the back of
        your manual, the distribution disk, or on the registration card.
        
        
                             Encrypt-It for Windows
        
        
        "Encryption/Decryption/Cryptanalysis -- Fast, Safe, and Easy to Use"
        
        
                                 is published by
        
        
                               MaeDae Enterprises
                                 5430 Murr Road
                            Peyton, CO 80831  U.S.A.
                                 (719) 683-3860
        
              Published and printed in the United States of America.
        
         Copyright 1991  MaeDae Enterprises as a licensed, unpublished,
              proprietary work.  All international rights reserved.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 1
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        The printed Reference Manual and associated registered software
        may not be copied, resold, reproduced, disclosed, archived,
        transmitted, or transferred in any form, electronic or otherwise,
        without the express written permission of MaeDae Enterprises.
        You may freely distribute the Shareware version.
        
        REGISTERED USERS: (those who paid and received a serial number)
        
        MaeDae Enterprises hereby grants a "book" license to the original
        individual (even if purchased by a company) user of this copy of
        Encrypt-It.  You may use the program on your computer and make
        one backup for storage as long as there is no possibility of use
        or residence on more than one machine at any time.  Just like two
        people cannot read the same book in different locations at the
        same time.  Every registered copy of Encrypt-It has a unique,
        embedded serial number for traceabililty.  You may not sell or
        give copies of the registered program or printed documentation to
        anyone.  No exceptions.
        
        Pricing, specifications, and conditions are subject to change
        without notice.
        
        Send all registrations and inquiries for site (multiple CPU or
        network) licensing to MaeDae Enterprises at the address on the
        previous page.
        
        Disclaimer:
        
        MaeDae Enterprises makes NO claims AND offers NO warranties of
        any sort with Encrypt-It.  MaeDae Enterprises assumes NO
        responsibility for any damage resulting from the apparent or
        actual use of Encrypt-It (mental or physical).  The program
        provided is not guaranteed as to merchantability or fitness for
        its ultimate use.  The user accepts all responsibility for use
        and may not resell the program.
        
        IBM PC/XT/AT are registered trademarks of the International
        Business Machines Corporation.
        
        Encrypt-It is a trademark of MaeDae Enterprises.  Other
        trademarks belong to their respective owners.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 2
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        PREFACE
        
        ABOUT THIS MANUAL
        
        You will notice that this manual is concise.  This is intentional
        as we strived to make Encrypt-It the easiest program of its type
        to use.  We opted to provide an extensive built-in user help
        system.  Feel free to use this reference manual to install and
        get acquainted with the program.
        
        For many of you, this may be your first exposure to Shareware.
        To help eliminate possible confusion, we included a short
        description of the Shareware marketing concept, explaining what
        it is and why it relies on YOU for its survival.
        
        What is Shareware?  Shareware is not a kind of software.  It is a
        revolutionary method of marketing Commercial software.  Our
        software is Commercial software that we are allowing you to
        examine for 15 days before you make the purchase decision.  With
        traditional marketing methods, you have to purchase Commercial
        software from a computer store or through mail order businesses,
        then try it out, and hope it does what you want.  Shareware
        allows you to "try before you buy!"
        
        We rely upon you, the customer, to examine our software.  If you
        find it useful, please register.  Your support is needed for us
        to continue to improve our products.
        
        Enough of this verbage.  The real fun and learning begin when you
        use the program.  So, enjoy!
        
        With warmest regards,
        
        The gang at MaeDae Enterprises.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 3
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
                                   Table of Contents
                                   =================
        
        Page    Description
        ====    ============
        
        5.      What is the Data Encryption Standard (DES)?
        
        5.      What is Encrypt-It?  An overview of its features.
        
        6.      Hardware Requirements
        
        7.      Installation - the "README.DOC" file.
        
        7.      Installation Notes
        
        8.      Getting Started
        
        9.      Tutorial
        
        10.     Additional Features
        
        11.     Troubleshooting
        
        12.     Basic Definitions
        
        13.     Encrypted Ramblings
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 4
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        WHAT IS THE DATA ENCRYPTION STANDARD (DES)?
        ===========================================
        
        Most encryption schemes are kept secret.  One exception is the
        Data Encryption Standard (DES), which was issued by the U.S.
        National Bureau of Standards.  Even the National Security Agency
        (NSA) was intimately involved in the development and acceptance
        testing of the algorithm.
        
        But, how does it work?  DES performs its encryption "magic" by
        working on a block of 64 bits of your data using a 64 bit key
        (we generate the 64 bit key from the key you supply).  Basically,
        DES is a substitution cipher.  We know this sounds very technical,
        but don't worry, we have hidden all the complexity of DES behind an
        extremely easy to use interface.  Our extensive built-in user help
        system makes protecting your data a simple task.
        
        Why did we choose to implement DES?  We chose DES because it is a
        standard.  Its ability to protect your data is well documented.
        Our goal is to provide you the best possible software tool for
        the protection of your data.  We use multiple layers of
        encryption, with DES as the final layer of protection for your
        data.  Because of this approach, we feel your data is protected
        far better than using DES by itself.
        
        
        WHAT IS ENCRYPT-IT?
        ===================
        
        Encrypt-It is a powerful encryption/decryption package for Windows
        3.x that allows you to:
        
        1. Encrypt any file using Data Encryption Standard encryption,
        
        2. Decrypt the file using a confidental key,
        
        3. Perform encryption and decryption on entire groups of files
        in a batch mode,
        
        4. Obtain file statistics (frequency/distribution, mode, mean,
        median, and more) to determine how well the file is encrypted
        (also to look at other encrypted files),
        
        5. Erase files completely without leaving a trace.  We even
        support a government standard file wipe option.
        
        6. And do it all without cryptic commands!
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 5
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
        =====================
        
        1.  IBM PC/XT/AT, IBM PS/2, or fully compatible computer capable
        of running Windows 3.0 or later.
        
        2.  At least one 5.25" or 3.5" floppy disk drive.  Two floppy disk
        drives or one floppy and a hard disk (300K free space minimum for
        the full system) are strongly recommended.
        
        
        INSTALLATION - README.DOC
        =========================
        
        For all installation information see the README.DOC on the main
        distribution diskette.  You can view the information on-line or
        print it out on your printer.  README.DOC is constantly updated
        to contain the latest information.
        
        P.S. The Shareware version of Encrypt-It is compelete.  However,
        it is a 15 day trial version.  Also, additional product
        information screens are added.
        
        Feel free to share ONLY the Shareware version with friends and
        potential users of Encrypt-It for 15 day trial/evaluation
        purposes only.  You may not use the Shareware version on other
        machines in order to avoid purchasing additional copies of the
        full program.  You may not give away any copies or make more than
        one copy of the fully operational program for other than archival
        purposes.  The full version of Encrypt-It has a unique serial
        number embedded in each copy for traceability.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 6
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        IMPORTANT INSTALLATION NOTES:
        
        1.  Diskette #1 contains many files in addition to EIW.EXE.
        Please make sure these files are all installed in the same
        directory when running the program.
        
        2.  If Encrypt-It does not run properly:
        
            A.  Your machine may not be 100% IBM PC operating system
            compatible or Windows may be installed incorrectly.  This
            is not always disastrous and a quick call to our phone
            support staff may solve your problem.
        
            B.  You may have a slightly incompatible Windows video
            driver.  Usually, updating your driver or re-installing
            Windows solves the problem.
        
            C.  If you have any memory resident programs or system
            drivers, try running without them loaded on your computer.
            On some computers, ANSI.SYS is suspect.
        
        3.  This manual is designed to give you a general overview and
        familiarity with the program.  More complete, up-to-date
        information is available to you through the extensive built-in
        user help (F1) system.  When using the more advanced features of
        the program, the help screens will guide you through the toughest
        questions with ease.  As Encrypt-It continues to add more
        features, you can be sure that the built in help will give you
        the guidance needed.  This way everybody wins.  We don't spend
        money continually revising manuals and charging you higher
        prices.  You get what you want and deserve: accurate up-to-date
        information.  So fire up the computer, dig in, and welcome to
        Encrypt-It!
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 7
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        GETTING STARTED
        ===============
        
        After you run EIW.EXE using the file manager, the MAIN MENU will
        appear on your screen.
        
        The Main Menu options with descriptions are below.
        
        *File:  This menu option provides the basic File Select option
        which allows you to select the file(s) you want to work with.  It
        also provides utilities like File Remove and File Statistics
        which allow you to "look" at any file to see how well it is
        encrypted.
        
        Note:  You must first select a file before you can work with it.
        Grayed menu options will then become dark text indicating you can
        now use those options.  After you encrypt, decrypt, or remove
        files, you will notice the encrypt and decrypt options become
        grayed. They are now disabled because you altered the contents of
        the directory and it needs to be re-read before you can continue.
        
        *Encrypt:  Encode or hide the information within a file to make
        it unreadable to anyone who doesn't have a special access code
        called a key.  Just like you can't unlock a lock without a key,
        you can't look at an encrypted file without the key.  You limit
        the number of people who know the key, thereby limiting the
        number of people who can access the intelligence within the file,
        even if they have access to the file.  A key is simply a
        combination of letters and numbers.  They may or may not have any
        conventional meaning.  For example, the letters xyz12345 could be
        a key.
        
        *Decrypt:  Decryption is the opposite of encryption.  You use the
        same key initially used to encrypt the file and reverse the
        process.
        
        Please note we provide two methods of encryption and decryption.
        The two methods are our lighter proprietary method and the Data
        Encryption Standard (DES) encryption method.  DES provides the
        more powerful method, but is much slower.  Choose the appropriate
        method for the level of protection you require.  Encrypt-It can't
        retrieve the key used to encrypt the file.  If you forget the key
        you can also forget your file.  This is the nature of data
        protection.  We have no way of helping you recover any lost data
        due to a lost key!  So be careful!
        
        *ClearKey!:  This option clears the encryption/decryption key
        from memory.  Use of this option is strongly recommended before
        you leave Encrypt-It running un-attended.  You must protect your
        key to prevent someone else from gaining access to your data.
        
        *Options:  This menu item provides access to the options
        available to you for encryption and decryption.  You can set the
        level of encryption (DES or proprietary), tell Encrypt-It what to
        do with source files after encryption/decryption, etc.
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 8
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        
        You may choose any of the displayed options by holding down the
        Alt key, then pressing the letter which is underlined on the menu
        item or by selecting it with the mouse.
        
        
        TUTORIAL (ENCRYPTING/DECRYPTING A FILE)
        =======================================
        
        Now let's do something simple to demonstrate how Encrypt-It works.
        
        Choose the File menu option.  Then pick the Select option from
        the menu.  A File Select dialog box will appear allowing you to
        select one or more files.  Choose the first file by double
        clicking the mouse on it.  Did you notice that the Encrypt and
        Decrypt main menu options are now enabled?
        
        Pick the main menu Encrypt Option.  A dialog box will appear
        asking you several questions.  The only one that has to be
        answered in this tutorial is the key.  Since this is the first
        file we've encrypted, the Encryption Key won't contain anything.
        The cursor should be on the line prompting you for a key.  Choose
        an easy to remember key and type it in.  Now click on the OK box.
        
        A file will be written in encrypted form using the default key
        and default filename shown.  The file to be encrypted is broken
        into small blocks which can easily be read into your computer's
        memory, then encrypted.  You have just encrypted your first file.
        
        Did you notice that the Encrypt/Decrypt Options grayed?  You just
        added a new file to the default directory invalidating the file
        list stored in memory.  It will stay grayed until you update the
        in-memory list through the use of the File Select option.
        
        *** Warning ***   Encrypt-It remembers the last key you used
        until you exit the program, or 10 minutes have passed with no
        activity on your computer!  If you haven't cleared the key, and
        it wasn't cleared automatically, it is still available for use by
        Encrypt-It in the next operation.  This makes it easier for you
        but can lead to problems if you walk away from your computer with
        Encrypt-It running.  Another user could potentially find out the
        last key you used by checking the encrypt or decrypt screens. We
        recommend you NEVER leave your computer with Encrypt-It running.
        
        Now lets decrypt the file you just encrypted.  To decrypt a file
        you just reverse the process.  You first select the file you just
        encrypted using the same steps as for encryption.  Look for the
        filename created when you encrypted the first file, then select
        it with mouse.  Now select Decrypt from the main menu and the
        Decrypt Files dialog box opens.  Use the same key as when you
        encrypted the file.  The output filename will be extracted from
        the header of the encrypted file.  You can allow Encrypt-It to
        overwrite the original, unencrypted file or choose a new
        filename.  It's that simple.
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 9
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        ADDITIONAL FEATURES
        ===================
        
        MULTIPLE FILE OPERATIONS
        
        Use the File Select dialog box to tag multiple files.  If
        multiple files are tagged, Encrypt-It will prompt you for
        confirmation and then work with the entire group of files at one
        time.  This works for Encrypt, Decrypt, File Remove, and File
        Stats.
        
        AUTO FILENAME GENERATION
        
        Encrypt-It will automatically generate a unique destination
        filename when you encrypt a file.  You have the option to
        override this feature for single file operations.  We suggest a
        tilde (~) as the first character of an encrypted file's
        extension.  Encrypt-It automatically generates an extension with
        a ~ followed by two characters.  Your directory is checked for
        files and we generate 00-99 and AA-ZZ until we find a unique
        unused filename.  Most of the time the extension will be a .~00
        for the first encrypted file, a .~01 for the second, etc.  This
        technique allows encrypting groups of files in a batch mode
        without your manual input.  Using this method we can generate
        about 776 unique filenames by working with the file extension and
        leaving the main portion of the filename unchanged.
        
        AUTO KEY CLEARING
        
        The key used to encrypt/decrypt files must be kept secret for
        your data to remain protected.  Encrypt-It has a built-in auto
        key clearing feature.  Any time you have a key typed in and leave
        your computer for 10 minutes with Encrypt-It running unattended,
        your key will be automatically cleared.  For this feature to
        work, you must be at the Encrypt-It main menu.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 10
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        TROUBLESHOOTING
        ===============
        
        If Encrypt-It will not run, you may have insufficient memory or
        too many memory resident programs.  Try running Encrypt-It with
        no memory resident programs or allocate a larger swapfile under
        Windows.  See your Windows User's Guide for help with the
        Swapfile program.
        
        If Encrypt-It just stops running and you get an "Unrecoverable
        Application Error," you may have incompatible hardware/software.
        Try running Encrypt-It in the 386 Enhanced mode (if you have a
        386 computer) to see if that corrects the problem.
        
        Occasionally, certain memory resident TSR or "pop-up" programs
        conflict with Encrypt-It.  In general, there is no problem, but
        there are many new programs being written without regard to the
        system requirements of other programs that may be running at the
        same time.  Remove them from memory, and try again.  If that
        fails, try getting rid of device drivers in your CONFIG.SYS file.
        ANSI.SYS is a prime suspect for some not-so-compatible computers.
        
        
        MISCELLANEOUS
        
        Encrypt-It works closely with your computer's hardware to gain
        much of its speed.  However, it never directly addresses the
        hardware without using standard DOS calls.  If you have any
        memory resident software that modifies the way DOS works, then
        Encrypt-It may not function properly.  We strongly recommend that
        you remove all memory resident software before running
        Encrypt-It.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 11
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        BASIC DEFINITIONS:
        ==================
        
        The terms used in Encrypt-It may be a little confusing.  They are
        terms frequently used when discussing cryptography.  We have
        tried to pick a handful of the most important terms and define
        them for you.  They are:
        
        Data Encryption Standard (DES) - The Data Encryption Standard was
        issued by the U.S. National Bureau of Standards.  The National
        Security Agency (NSA) was intimately involved in the development
        and acceptance testing of the algorithm.  DES performs its
        encryption by working on a block of 64 bits of your data using a
        64 bit key (we generate the 64 bit key from the key you provide).
        Basically, DES is a substitution cipher.
        
        Cryptography -- The general study of hiding the meaning of
        messages and the general techniques used for the hiding.
        
        Cryptanalysis -- The solving or breaking of codes without any
        knowledge of the key.
        
        Cipher -- Any technique, method, or scheme (substitution,
        transposition, and XOR) used to encrypt and decrypt text,
        without regard to its linguistic structure.
        
        Plaintext -- The unencrypted or totally decrypted readable text.
        
        Ciphertext -- The unintelligible text, after encrypting it.
        
        Encrypting -- The process of encoding/encrypting a plaintext file
        to hide the intelligence.
        
        Decrypting -- Decoding an encrypted/ciphertext file.
        
        Key -- The text used to encrypt or decrypt a file.  Sometimes
        called a code word.  Keys can be simple everyday words or very
        complex combinations of characters that have no meaning. Some
        electronic information services pick your password by combining
        two regular words with a character between them. Examples keys:
        abc1234, Never:Again, and alsdkfqiaef.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 12
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        ENCRYPTED RAMBLINGS - SOME GOOD INFORMATION
        ===========================================
        
        As networks proliferate, the need for data security increases.
        The world in the past has largely depended on physical security,
        that is safes and locks.  Computers, much to everyone's
        consternation, are rapidly eroding the possibility of physical
        security (wherever a modem is connected to a phone line).  Laws
        will be passed, but in the final result, honesty depends on good
        locks and all the ministrations of legislators and bureaucrats
        will have little positive effect on security.  Human nature will
        win out.  The easier it is to get, the more likely it is to be
        stolen.  Encryption provides part of the answer to the need for
        increased security. It will be especially useful in systems that
        are open to all users but which have some confidential data.
        Instead of complex levels of user verification through passwords,
        everyone can get the file but only the people with the key can
        decode the information. Encryption in its present state is
        cumbersome and time consuming but, faster computers and better
        programs can ease this problem.  This is where Encrypt-It comes
        to the rescue.
        
        Encryption is a fascinating exercise.  Encrypt-It implements a
        version of Vernham's machine developed at Bell labs in the 1920's
        as part of its lite encryption method.  The original machine used
        Baudot code on a teletype and performed an exclusive or (XOR) on
        each character of the message and the key to produce the
        encrypted character.  The message was decoded by the same machine
        in the same manner.  The method is considered unbreakable if two
        conditions are met.  First, the key is longer than the message
        and second, the key is only used once, sometimes called a "one
        time pad."  Typically the files you will be encrypting are much
        longer than the key (also much longer than the one we build from
        your key) thereby weakening the encryption.
        
        Distribution and maintenance of keys is unworkable in the day-to-
        day operation of any communications operation of any size.
        Encrypt-It builds a much more complex key in its lite encryption
        method from your simple key, in an effort to provide a means to
        ease this problem.  It creates a one time pad based on your
        unique key.  Even if you always use the same key, Encrypt-It adds
        random information to make the key unique.  Most random keys are
        not truly random since all random functions are repeatable and
        their true randomness is somewhat suspect.  What is the solution?
        The specter of bigger and faster computers looms in the future to
        provide even faster encryption.  Thinkers build on the best
        thoughts of those preceding them.  More powerful computers and
        better encryption techniques will eventually provide a good
        solution to this problem.
        
        Encrypt-It provides encryption methods that range from the fairly
        secure to the very secure.  When you choose DES we use the lite
        encryption methods as the first layer followed by the secure DES.
        This further complicates the process of breaking the code.
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 13
        
        
        
        
                 (C) Copyright 1991,1992  MaeDae Enterprises
        
        The best encryption in the world won't protect your data if you
        give away the key.  Secure encryption of the data is our job.
        The choice of a good key and its protection is your job.
        
        How do you select a good key?  Several things should be
        considered. The key should not have a lot of repeating
        characters.  If they have any pattern to the eye they should not
        be used.  Keys should be kept secure.
        
        Encrypt-It supports keys up to 40 characters in length.  We
        recommend you use as long a key as practical.  Phrases or short
        sentences should work well as the key and still be easy to
        remember.  Spaces may be used in your key, but we recommend not
        using spaces at the beginning or end of the key.  These spaces
        are easily forgotten.
        
        NOTE:  If there is any question about the randomness of the
        encrypted file, Encrypt-It could be used on it multiple times
        using different keys.  The true randomness of the key should not
        matter since the use of more than one key should make unraveling
        very difficult, if not impossible.  This process could be
        repeated until the paranoia of the person generating the keys was
        satisfied.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                   Page 14
        
        
        
        
```
{% endraw %}

## ORDER.DOC

{% raw %}
```
                                ORDER FORM

        See README.DOC and VENDORS.DOC for additional information.

   Send to:  MaeDae Enterprises         Info:  CompuServe at 72571,3245
             5430 Murr Road                    GEnie at MAEDAE
             Peyton, CO 80831                  MaeDae Ent (719) 683-3860

   Registration benefits:  1.  No additional information screens.
                           2.  Unlimited support - written or by phone.
                           3.  Full DES encryption enabled for Encrypt-It.
                           4.  Extensive hard copy reference manual.

   Upgrades:  Upgrades may be obtained at any time.  Add $5 per application
              for an updated hard copy manual.
   ========================================================================

                Item               Unit Price  Qty   Upgrade  Qty    Total
   =============================   ==========  ===   =======  ===   =======
   Encrypt-It for Windows (DES!)      $59      ___     $15    ___   $______
   Encrypt-It for DOS (DES!)          $59      ___     $15    ___   $______
   Both Windows and DOS Encrypt-It    $99      ___     $25    ___   $______
   Mortgage Designer for Windows      $39      ___     $10    ___   $______
   WinDupe - Windows Disk Duplicator  $39      ___     $10    ___   $______

   Both 5 1/4" and 3 1/2" media are included.          Subtotal     $______

                            CO State residents add 4% sales tax     $______

                                Shipping and handling per order        5.00

                                                          Total     $______

   Checks, money orders, VISA, and Master Charge accepted.  Make payable to
   MaeDae Enterprises.  Prices subject to change without notice.  If paying
   by charge card please provide the following information with signature.

   Visa [ ] M/C [ ]  Card#: ______________________________  Exp date: __/__

   Cardholder Name: _________________________________  Phone#: ____________

   Signature required!  ___________________________________________________

   Note:  It is illegal to export Encrypt-It outside the US and Canada due
   to the DES encryption technology used to protect your data.
   ========================================================================

   Which product and version are you using? _______________________________

   Where did you obtain it? _______________________________________________
   ========================================================================

   Ship to:     Name __________________________________________

             Company __________________________________________

             Address __________________________________________

                City _________________ State _____ Zip ________
```
{% endraw %}

## README.DOC

{% raw %}
```

Dear Encrypt-It user,                           18 Jul 1992

This new version of Encrypt-It provides several enhancements.  See the
history section below for details.

Please take the time to suggest ways for us to improve Encrypt-It.
Fill out and mail in the enclosed suggestion form (SUGGEST.DOC) to
provide inputs.

                                  David Black
                                  MaeDae Enterprises

==============================================================================

                             INSTALLATION

For DOS:  Follow the directions provided with the registered version or
          make a directory called EID (for Encrypt-It DOS) and copy all
          the files into it.  Run EID.EXE for the main application.

For Win:  Follow the directions provided with the registered version or
          make a directory called EIW (for Encrypt-It Win) and copy all
          the files into it.  Run EIW.EXE for the main application using
          the Windows File Manager.  You can either highlight EIW.EXE
          and double click on it or use the run command and specify
          the complete path (i.e. C:\EIW\EIW.EXE).

==============================================================================

                                HISTORY

v1.0 JUN 91 - Initial release of the DOS and Windows versions.  Provided
              high speed Data Encryption Standard (DES) plus our additional
              layers of proprietary encryption for your data.   Perfect for
              everything from diaries to coporate proprietary data.

v1.1 AUG 91   Added graphics for statistics histogram in Windows version.
              Added 16 bit CRC information into the encrypted file for
              both versions ensuring you are notified if the data is ever
              altered.  Also provided more on-line help.

v1.2 NOV 91   Speeded up graphics for file statistics.  Expanded on-line
              help.  Expanded several of the dialog boxes in response to
              user feedback.  Touched up to ensure Windows 3.1 compatibility.

v1.3 FEB 92   Added multi-tasking background operation, graphic status bars,
              expanded help, plus a more standardized user interface for
              Windows version.

v1.4 JUL 92   Both DOS and Windows:  Up to 50% faster encryption/decryption!
              Plus additional enhancements to improve the user interface and
              performance.

Note:  We release both DOS and Windows upgrades at the same time in order
       to keep them in sync.  We want to ensure that you can move your
       encrypted data between DOS and Windows cleanly as we improve our
       products.

==============================================================================

                            SITE LICENSING

Site licenses are available for Encrypt-It.  Site licenses provide both
DOS and Windows versions.  Use whichever version that best fits your needs.
The encrypted files are fully interchangeable between DOS and Windows.
Please contact us for the latest pricing.

==============================================================================

                        VENDOR INFORMATION

Shareware resellers have permission to place Encrypt-It in their catalog
provided diskettes are not sold for more than $10.  We would like your
address so we can keep you updated with the latest version of our packages.
Please send us a copy of your latest catalog and your requirements for us
to be added.  We will automatically update you as each new version is
released to ensure you provide only the lastest version to your customers.
Send to:

MaeDae Enterprises
5430 Murr Road
Peyton, CO 80831
(719) 683-3860
```
{% endraw %}

## SUGGEST.DOC

{% raw %}
```
                              SUGGESTION FORM

   Use this form to suggest improvements for Encrypt-It.  We need to
   know your requirements so we can improve Encrypt-It to provide the
   required capabilities.

   Send to:  MaeDae Enterprises     EMail to:  CompuServe at 72571,3245
             5430 Murr Road                    GEnie at MAEDAE
             Peyton, CO 80831

   Your info:     Name __________________________________________

               Company __________________________________________

               Address __________________________________________

                  City _________________ State _____ Zip ________

   =====================================================================

   Which version of Encrypt-It are you using?  [ ] DOS  [ ] Windows

   Where did you obtain Encrypt-It? ____________________________________

   What do you like about Encrypt-It? __________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   How can we improve Encrypt-It? ______________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   What other products would you like us to develop? ___________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________

   _____________________________________________________________________
```
{% endraw %}

## VENDORS.DOC

{% raw %}
```
==============================================================================
|         *** More Sources for Encrypt-It and Mortgage Designer ***          |
==============================================================================

==============================================================================
You may now register Encrypt-It and Mortgage Designer with your VISA/MC,
check, or money order through Software Excitement!'s registration service
by choosing any of the following options...

1)  Call----800-444-5457
2)  Fax-----503-826-8090
3)  Write---Software Excitement!
            Attn: Registrations
            6475 Crater Lake Hwy.
            Central Point, OR 97502
4)  CompuServe members may log on and type GO SE, to access Software
    Excitement!'s new Electronic Mall Store, where you can choose option #7
    to register your favorite shareware products, including Encrypt-It and
    Mortgage Designer.
==============================================================================
Encrypt-It for DOS or Windows is also available in an international version
under the name of WINDEX! from:

Jack Graziano, Director
DataSafe
Bahnhofstrasse 19
2150 Buxtehude
Germany

Contact Jack for the latest pricing information.  The international version
is the same as the USA version except several additional layers of proprietary
encryption are substituted for the Data Encryption Standard (DES) encryption.
Multiple layers of proprietary encryption are subsituted for DES in order to
comply with US government restrictions on exporting this technology outside the
US and Canada.
==============================================================================

```
{% endraw %}

## WHATSNEW.DOC

{% raw %}
```

Changes in Encrypt-It v1.40 for Windows provides the following over v1.30:

- Encryption/decryption up to 50% faster!  Replaced the cyclic redundancy
  checks (CRC) routines with high speed assembly language versions using
  lookup tables.  Result:  Much faster encryption and decryption.  However,
  this results in encrypted files that can't be decrypted by previous
  versions of Encrypt-It.
- Expanded the file selections area to allow you to easily select or
  unselect all the files shown in the files listbox.  For example, use a
  filename mask of *.~* to display all the encrypted files.  Then, use the
  Select All option to quickly select all encrypted files in the current
  default directory.
- Added additional code to catch the error condition where you may try to
  encrypt a zero length file (DOS will allow you to create a file without
  anything in it).  Also added code for zero length statistics handling.
- Improved the handling of international characters in paths, filenames,
  and keys.
- Improved the handling of PgUp and PgDn while viewing file statistics.
- Corrected a problem with the file statistics viewing where Alt+N for the
  next file could under rare conditions also call up the help screen.
- Added a file called VENDORS.DOC to list additional sources for Encrypt-It.
- Corrected a problem where Encrypt-It wasn't correctly picking up the
  destination file name from the Encrypt Multiple Files dialog box.
- Other minor touchups to work better under the new Windows 3.1 upgrade.
- Touched up encryption/decryption key handling to improve DOS/Windows
  compatibility when high ASCII characters are used in the key.
- Removed version number from main menu caption bar to better conform to
  general Windows application appearance.  The version number is still
  available under the Help About option.
- Changed all menus and keyboard shortcut keys to automatically load when
  you load Encrypt-it.  This uses a little more memory but results in
  faster execution.
- Changed the File Overwrite dialog box that comes up when decrypting
  files and the destination file already exists.  Previously it defaulted
  to the top edit field which was the path.  Most of the time you will
  want to change the destination filename and keep the same output
  directory.  This dialog box now defaults to the file's name.
- Improved the free installation program that comes with the registered
  version to include Program Manager group selection, additional support
  for Windows 3.1, plus much more.
- Fixed a bug in the statistics area where VERY large files in the megabyte
  range could generate statistics that exceeded the supported display values.


Changes in Encrypt-It v1.41 for Windows provides the following over v1.40:

- Changed the file selection from an extended selection list box to a
  multiple selection list box.  With the select all and unselect all
  commands implemented as part of v1.40, the additional complexity of the
  extended select commands really aren't needed.  This change was requested
  by users and we feel all users may find this area easier to use thanks to
  the simplification.
- Added a program preferences option under the file pulldown.  You can now
  specify common preferences for encryption and decryption.  They can be
  saved to a file and automatically used each time you run Encrypt-It.
  The file will always be saved in the Encrypt-It startup directory.


Changes in Encrypt-It v1.42 for Windows provides the following over v1.41:

- The file selection dialog box supports double clicking on the file list
  to indicate that you want to use only the selected file.  Users were
  accidentally initiating this action when quickly selecting multiple files.
  The operation of the file list has been changed to accept double clicks
  ONLY if there aren't multiple files selected.  You can still double click
  to work with a single file, for multiple files you have to manually say
  you are done.
- Added destination path validation to the encrypt and decrypt dialog boxes.
  Encrypt-It will now catch all invalid paths while you are still in the
  encrypt and decrypt dialog boxes allowing easy correction.
- Expanded the built-in help to provide answers to some commonly asked
  questions.
- Expanded the statistics area to have first and last file options.  You
  can use the menu or the numeric keypad Home and End keys.
- Greatly speeded up the perfomance and randomness of the Make Key option
  on the encrypt dialog box.
- Other minor touchups.


Changes in Encrypt-It v1.43 for Windows provides the following over v1.42:

- The File Remove option is now grayed when no longer available.  Previously
  only items on its popup menu were grayed/disabled.
- Added additional tests to delay automatic key clearing during multi-tasking
  operations so that it will occur ONLY after all files are encrypted or
  decrypted.  Previously VERY VERY long encryption/decryptions of over 10
  minutes could cause the key to be automatically cleared before all the
  selected files were encrypted or decrypted.


Changes in Encrypt-It v1.44 for Windows provides the following over v1.43:

- Added easy keyboard selection of buttons for many of the dialog boxes.
- Other minor touchups.

```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## README.TXT

{% raw %}
```

Dear Encrypt-It user,                           18 Jul 1992

This new version of Encrypt-It provides several enhancements.  See the
history section below for details.

Please take the time to suggest ways for us to improve Encrypt-It.
Fill out and mail in the enclosed suggestion form (SUGGEST.DOC) to
provide inputs.

                                  David Black
                                  MaeDae Enterprises

==============================================================================

                             INSTALLATION

For DOS:  Follow the directions provided with the registered version or
          make a directory called EID (for Encrypt-It DOS) and copy all
          the files into it.  Run EID.EXE for the main application.

For Win:  Follow the directions provided with the registered version or
          make a directory called EIW (for Encrypt-It Win) and copy all
          the files into it.  Run EIW.EXE for the main application using
          the Windows File Manager.  You can either highlight EIW.EXE
          and double click on it or use the run command and specify
          the complete path (i.e. C:\EIW\EIW.EXE).

==============================================================================

                                HISTORY

v1.0 JUN 91 - Initial release of the DOS and Windows versions.  Provided
              high speed Data Encryption Standard (DES) plus our additional
              layers of proprietary encryption for your data.   Perfect for
              everything from diaries to coporate proprietary data.

v1.1 AUG 91   Added graphics for statistics histogram in Windows version.
              Added 16 bit CRC information into the encrypted file for
              both versions ensuring you are notified if the data is ever
              altered.  Also provided more on-line help.

v1.2 NOV 91   Speeded up graphics for file statistics.  Expanded on-line
              help.  Expanded several of the dialog boxes in response to
              user feedback.  Touched up to ensure Windows 3.1 compatibility.

v1.3 FEB 92   Added multi-tasking background operation, graphic status bars,
              expanded help, plus a more standardized user interface for
              Windows version.

v1.4 JUL 92   Both DOS and Windows:  Up to 50% faster encryption/decryption!
              Plus additional enhancements to improve the user interface and
              performance.

Note:  We release both DOS and Windows upgrades at the same time in order
       to keep them in sync.  We want to ensure that you can move your
       encrypted data between DOS and Windows cleanly as we improve our
       products.

==============================================================================

                            SITE LICENSING

Site licenses are available for Encrypt-It.  Site licenses provide both
DOS and Windows versions.  Use whichever version that best fits your needs.
The encrypted files are fully interchangeable between DOS and Windows.
Please contact us for the latest pricing.

==============================================================================

                        VENDOR INFORMATION

Shareware resellers have permission to place Encrypt-It in their catalog
provided diskettes are not sold for more than $10.  We would like your
address so we can keep you updated with the latest version of our packages.
Please send us a copy of your latest catalog and your requirements for us
to be added.  We will automatically update you as each new version is
released to ensure you provide only the lastest version to your customers.
Send to:

MaeDae Enterprises
5430 Murr Road
Peyton, CO 80831
(719) 683-3860
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $14.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $34.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine )
(also The Encyclopedia of Shareware, and 5 free disks )

The PC-SIG Games CD-ROM (Over 380 playable games)      $39.00  ______

The Essential Home & Business Collection for           $59.00  ______

*** PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM 11th Edition  ***         $159.00 ______
              NEW LOWER PRICE!

Upgrade to the 11th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $85.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other shareware CD-ROM just           $99.00  ______

                                                    Subtotal   ______

If you want 3-1/2 inch disks please add .50 cents per disk     ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD call (800)245-6717
Ask for operator #2316





                                *****




              TO PRINT THIS ORDER FORM, PRESS ANY KEY AND
              THEN "Quit" ONCE TO RETURN TO THE MAIN MENU.
                     SELECT "Print Reply Form."
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3428

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    EIW144   ZIP     71280   2-01-93  10:12a
    CDROM    TXT      3693   1-21-92   6:10a
    GO-FORM  DAT      3332   2-10-93   8:49a
    README   TXT      3788  10-20-92   8:23p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PCSIG    TXT      2335   2-10-93   8:50a
    PKUNZIP  EXE     23528   3-15-90   1:10a
    SHAREMAG TXT      1837   1-21-92   6:11a
    SIGORDER TXT      3332   2-10-93   8:49a
    GO-STRT  DAT       548   3-01-93   9:36a
           10 file(s)     139695 bytes
                           17920 bytes free
