---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3671)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3671/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3671"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
        T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This may well be the greatest collection of software ever compiled.

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM is our premier collection of the entire
PC-SIG library.  Every shareware program we have is on one disc; over
900 megabytes of software you can have immediate access to.

Easy to use, all you have to do is insert the disc and type 'INSTALL' at
the DOS prompt.  We've included all the tools you need for fast easy
access to the programs and their descriptions.

The WordCruncher text retrieval software allows you to quickly access
the description for any program you want.  All the programs are indexed
by title, filename, PC-SIG disk number, and every word within the
program description.  There couldn't be an easier way to find just the
right program.  All the programs are logically divided into thirteen
major categories with subcategories, making it easier to find just the
right software.

All of the programs have been scanned for viruses.  There are also three
online virus utilities that can be run from the CD-ROM which will scan,
screen and clean viruses.  Not only does this save hard disk space, but
also gives every user added security from viruses.

Whether you're interested in Accounting or Windows, there's a shareware
program for you on the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

Winner of the Optical Publishing Assn's Best Consumer Product Award.

Shareware for every imaginable need: Accounting Chemistry Educational
Engineering Games Hypertext Networks Programming Spreadsheets Utilities
Word Processing

Additional BBS file descriptions are available from PC-SIG so that the
CD-ROM can be set up quickly on a bulletin board.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 530K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
a graphics monitor (Hercules/EGA/VGA/SVGA).  A mouse is optional.





T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


                      The PC-SIG Games CD-ROM
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.


To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $14.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $34.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $7.00  ______

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

GAMES CD Amazing Disk - Amazing Price!                 $25.00  ______

*** PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM 12th Edition  ***         $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other shareware CD-ROM just           $59.00  ______

                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD call (800)245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

## TAPEII.TXT

{% raw %}
```
Click on 'Edit/Word Wrap'


TapeCalc II
Version 2.00
Copyright 1992 by Myron Sellers
All Rights Reserved


TapeCalc II was written using Microsoft Visual BASIC v1.0 and requires that Microsoft's freely-distributed VBRUN100.DLL be resident in your Windows directory. This runtime library is available license-free in the America On Line Windows software library, most other on-line services and many bulletin boards.



                               NEW FEATURES

TapeCalc II is a complete re-write of the original TapeCalc, v1.0a, that I uploaded to the America On Line Windows Applications software library.

TapeCalc II features a number of improvements and enhancements over the original including 7 new buttons, fixed-decimal entry for currency figures and the capability of staying on top of other open windows or "floating".




                               BUY A LICENSE

Probably the only negative in this new version is that it is shareware, and I'm asking for a $10.00 donation if you like and use it beyond a 30-day evaluation period.

Make checks and money orders payable to:

			Myron Sellers
			1601 Neshota Ln., Apt. #17
			Mobile, Alabama 36605-3026




                             USING TAPECALC II

To expand on the general features mentioned above, the additional buttons on TapeCalc II include 5 memory buttons (MS, memory store; M+, add value displayed on LCD to memory; M-, similar to M+; MR, display memory on LCD; and MC, clear memory or zero memory). These buttons, as with all other buttons on TapeCalc II, with the exception of the change sign button, can be activated with either the mouse or the keyboard. The memory buttons obviously require two key strokes when using the keyboard.

There is a single menu, 'Options', that includes the items 'Stay On Top','Show Tape' and 'Show Keys'. Clicking any of these items with the mouse results in the implied action taking place. If a check mark appears in front of an option item, then that option is active.

The sixth additional button, '+/-', is a change sign button. It can be activated only with a mouse click. Clicking the button toggles the value displayed on the LCD between a positive and negative number.

The seventh additional button, 'Erase Tape' erases the tape, clears and sets the LCD display to zero and sets the accumulator to zero.

Using the currency mode (click '$' button) eliminates the need of entering a decimal point. However, when entering a figure with zero cents two zeros must be entered as place holders. Similarly, a single zero must be entered with tenths of dollars. Percentages must be entered as whole numbers. An example would be 9%. The entry sequence would be 9 - 0 - 0 - %. When in floating decimal mode (click '$' again) the sequence would be 9 - %.

To add or subtract a percentage of a total to or from itself, simply enter the appropriate sign, the percentage value as described above and press the % button (1000 '+', '9', '%'). TapeCalc II requires only one key stroke to total both the LCD and the tape (either the '=' key, the 'Enter' key or the mouse).




                                THE TAPE

The tape, which gives TapeCalc II its main advantage, is, at the same time, a potential point of weakness. Since it may be edited directly by the user, there is ample possibility for errors in tape calculation and re-calculation.

If a few simple editing conventions are observed, the tape feature of TapeCalc II will behave in a consistent and predictable manner.

All lines, either edited or inserted MUST begin with an operation sign and end with a carriage return ('Enter'). There are seven operation signs all but one of which are entered at the beginning of each line in the tape.
These signs are '+', '-', '╫','≈','T' and 'C' (upper case for 'T' and 'C'). The seventh sign '%' is entered as the last character before the carriage return ('Enter'). Since it is inconvenient to enter '╫' and '≈' from the keyboard, '*' and '/' may be substituted.

To insert a line, position the cursor to the left of the operation sign of the line at the desired insertion point, and then press 'Enter'. An empty line should open up with the cursor one line below. Move the cursor to the beginning of the empty line, enter the desired operation sign and then the numeric value for the line. Position the cursor between the operation sign and the first digit of the numeric value. Insert spaces between the operation sign and the numeric value until the last digit of the numeric value is flush-right with the right edge of the tape. If you accidently insert too many spaces and the new line wraps to another line simply delete spaces until the new line is the correct length (15 characters). Since the carriage return ('Enter') for the new line was inserted when the new line was "opened up", don't press 'Enter' at the end of the line. All lines in the tape must be single-spaced and for proper tape calculation, there can be no "empty' lines in the tape.

To enter a percent value, proceed as above, but make the last character a '%' sign.

When inserting a 'T'otal line ('T') you may either pad the line after the 'T' with spaces or pad and make the last character on the line a zero. When you press the 'Calculate Tape' button, TapeCalc II will calculate and insert the total for this line.

Whenever you insert a line as the last line in a tape, be sure to end it with a carriage return ('Enter'). This is probably the only time you would need to press the 'Enter' key when editing a tape, as all existing lines already end with a carriage return and editing a line consists of changing only the information between the carriage return of the previous line and the one at the end of the line you are editing.

When you have finished your editing press the 'Calculate Tape' button. Always press this button when moving from the tape to the calculator buttons.

There is a small improvement over TapeCalc v1.0a in the speed at which the tape displays itself between entries. With a 1500-line tape, the delay between entry and tape re-display is noticeable, but not annoying. For persons who may use a calculator or adding machine on a daily basis in their work it would be a good idea to keep an eye on the CRT or the Num Lock light, especially those who use three fingers and the touch system. Errors will result if TapeCalc II is keyed too fast.

With a 1500-line tape, tape editing and re-calculation is a different story. With 1500 lines and depending on how many 'T'otal lines there are in the tape, re-calculation may take from 5 to 10 seconds. Re-calculation delay time with real-world tape length is noticeable, but not at all unacceptable.





                              TAPE EDITING TIPS

In the interest of keeping TapeCalc II size as small as possible I didn't include an editing menu. Using an editing menu also requires a good deal of mouse movement and clicking. The Windows Clipboard remains available to TapeCalcII, however. Highlight desired text with the mouse and 'Ctrl/Insert' to copy to the Clipboard or 'Shift/Delete' to cut to the Clipboard. Tapes may then be pasted to Notepad or Write where they can be commented or annotated and printed.

Convenient and efficient editing can be done with the right hand selecting text with the mouse and the left fingers doing 'Delete', 'Insert', 'space' and 'Enter'.
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3671

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    TAPEII   ZIP    182182   4-30-93   7:38a
    CDROM    TXT      4874   3-18-93   1:28p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3090   3-10-93   3:22p
    GO-STRT  DAT       548   4-30-93   8:02a
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PCSIG    TXT      2335   2-10-93   8:50a
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    SHAREMAG TXT      1837   1-21-92   6:11a
    SIGORDER TXT      3090   3-10-93   3:22p
            9 file(s)     253356 bytes
                           64512 bytes free
