---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3564)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3564/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3564"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
        T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This may well be the greatest collection of software ever compiled.

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM is our premier collection of the entire
PC-SIG library.  Every shareware program we have is on one disc; over
900 megabytes of software you can have immediate access to.

Easy to use, all you have to do is insert the disc and type 'INSTALL' at
the DOS prompt.  We've included all the tools you need for fast easy
access to the programs and their descriptions.

The WordCruncher text retrieval software allows you to quickly access
the description for any program you want.  All the programs are indexed
by title, filename, PC-SIG disk number, and every word within the
program description.  There couldn't be an easier way to find just the
right program.  All the programs are logically divided into thirteen
major categories with subcategories, making it easier to find just the
right software.

All of the programs have been scanned for viruses.  There are also three
online virus utilities that can be run from the CD-ROM which will scan,
screen and clean viruses.  Not only does this save hard disk space, but
also gives every user added security from viruses.

Whether you're interested in Accounting or Windows, there's a shareware
program for you on the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

Winner of the Optical Publishing Assn's Best Consumer Product Award.

Shareware for every imaginable need: Accounting Chemistry Educational
Engineering Games Hypertext Networks Programming Spreadsheets Utilities
Word Processing

Additional BBS file descriptions are available from PC-SIG so that the
CD-ROM can be set up quickly on a bulletin board.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 530K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
a graphics monitor (Hercules/EGA/VGA/SVGA).  A mouse is optional.





T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


                      The PC-SIG Games CD-ROM
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.


To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## QUATO.DOC

{% raw %}
```


                        * SOLEAU SOFTWARE PRESENTS *

                              QUATO WORD GAME
                                   (1.1)


                         Program by William Soleau
                          Version 1.0   (c) 1993

              Requirements:  EGA or VGA &  HARD DISK REQUIRED 


              Files Needed: Quato.ov0  Quato.ov1  Quato.ov2
                            Quato.ov3  Quato.ov4  Quato.ov5
                            Quato.ov6  Quato.ov7  Quato.ov8
                            Quato1.fnt Quato2.fnt Quato3.fnt
                            Quato.dic



                             OBJECTIVE

    The object of Quato is quite simple. On the 5x5 game grid
    there are 24 letters randomly placed at the beginning of each
    game. The objective is to move the letter tiles around to spell
    as many four or five letter words as you can within 3:00 minutes.


                             GAME PLAY

    At the start of each game there will be one black space on the
    game grid. Using your arrow keys (left,right,up,down), move the
    letters around by using the blank space to arrange the tiles so
    that they spell four or five letter words either across or down.
    Each time you move a letter tile, that row and column will be
    checked against an 80,000 word dictionary to see if any valid
    words have been spelled. (With a Hard Disk of average speed, this
    program can search approximately 10 different words in within a second)
    If a word is found, then it will be shown on the right side of the
    screen and its score will be added to your total score.


                               SCORING

    Points are awarded for each word found in the dictionary. A word can
    only be used once during a single round. The scoring is based upon the
    letters the word contains and the length of the word (either four
    or five letters).

    Each letter has a certain point value.

    1 Point :  A,D,E,I,L,M,N,O,R,S,T,U,W
    2 Points:  B,C,F,G,H,J,K,P,V,Y
    3 Points:  Q,X,Z


    The letter values are totaled and then multiplied by the length of
    the word.

    Example:  BATS   B=2  A=1  T=1  S=1

    Letter Values     = 5  *  4 (word length)    Total Word Score = 20



                         BONUS WORDS AND LETTER BONUS

    At the start of each round, there is a Bonus Word which is shown below
    the game grid. If you can arrange the letter tiles to spell this word,
    then that word score will be tripled!

    Below the Bonus Word is a list of all the different letters which
    appear on the game board.  If you can use all the letters in spelling
    your words within the 3:00 minute time limit, you will be awarded
    a special bonus of 100 points.



                                SCORE CARD

    When the 3:00 minute time limit has expired, your final score will be
    shown below the word list on the right side of the screen.  This score
    will be compared against the Ten Top Scores recorded. If you happen to
    qualify for the Ten Highest Scores, you will be asked to type in your
    initials. The Top Ten Scores are always visible on the right side of the
    screen.

    * Note *  If you want to reset the Top Ten Scores, then you can erase
              the QUATO.SCR file from the disk.


                             KEY DEFINITIONS

               <Arrow Keys>   Move Letter Tiles
               <D>irections   Quato Instructions (Can be used to Pause Game)
               <N>ew Game     Begins A Game
               <S>ound        Toggles Sound On/Off
               <Q>uit         Quits Quato Game

     
     * Speed Tip Note *   If you have a Ram Drive larger then 600k then 
                          try plaing Quato from there, it will be a lot
                          faster.  Just remember to transfer the score
                          file back to your hard disk when your done to
                          save your high scores.
       


                           * SOLEAU SOFTWARE *

     Soleau Software's main focus is to produce the finest logic and
     strategy games for the Shareware marketplace. Quato is just one
     of over thirty other challenging Soleau Software Games.

                         * REGISTERED VERSION *

     If you like Quato and continue to use it, we request that
     you register the game with us for $12.00. This registration will
     not only speed up the loading and exiting of the program and the
     wait between rounds, but will provide you with the ability to add 
     or delete words from the master dictionary.

     Information concerning the registration or details on our many other 
     games can be found in the QUATOREG.DOC file or at the closing screen.

     
     Site Licences are available for Schools and Educational programs.



          * REGISTER TODAY AND BECOME A SOLEAU SOFTWARE MEMBER *

     By registering this game with us, you instantly become a Soleau
     Software Member.  As a registered member you are entitled to
     discounts on other Soleau Software and Special Bonus Package Offers.


     We at Soleau Software thank you for your support and hope you
     will continue to enjoy this as well as our other Shareware
     products.


                                Sincerely,

                              William Soleau

                                President
                              Soleau Software

                             163 Amsterdam Ave
                                Suite 213
                              NYC, NY.  10023

                     *     *     *     *     *     *     *

```
{% endraw %}

## QUATOREG.DOC

{% raw %}
```

                    QUATO  v1.1  :  REGISTRATION FORM       
                 ________________________________________


             I WANT TO BECOME A SOLEAU SOFTWARE MEMBER TODAY!

               Please find enclosed the $12.00 registration fee for
          this Quato Word Game. This registered version will speed up
          the loading and exiting of the game, plus eliminate the 
          wait between rounds. This version will also allow me the ability  
          to Add or Delete words from the dictionary. As a new member, I 
          want to receive information on your other Shareware Games, 
          discounts on other Soleau Software and to be eligible for 
          Special Bonus Packages.

                          *    *    *    *    *

                             GAME PACK OFFER
                                   for
                        New Soleau Software Members

               As a New Soleau Software Member I have the option of
          enclosing an additional $6.00 for your Game Pack Offer of
          eight unregistered versions of your most popular Soleau
          Software Games on a 5 1/4" HD disk. I can receive this
          bonus offer by checking the appropriate line below.

                          *    *    *    *    *


          PLEASE FIND ENCLOSED:

            (Check One)

              ____   $12.00 for the Registered version of Quato.

              ____   $18.00 for the Registered version of Quato,
                     plus the Soleau Software Game Pack Offer.

            * Canadian/Foreign Users add $2.00 for postage. Checks 
              drawn on U.S. or Canadian bank or P.O. Money orders  U.S.$


          MY NAME AND ADDRESS IS:  __________________________________

                                   __________________________________

                                   __________________________________


          I GOT THIS PROGRAM FROM: __________________________________


          MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO:          Soleau Software
                                           163 Amsterdam Ave
                                           Suite 213
                                           New York, NY.  10023

```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $14.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $34.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $7.00  ______

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

GAMES CD Amazing Disk - Amazing Price!                 $25.00  ______

*** PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM 12th Edition  ***         $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other shareware CD-ROM just           $59.00  ______

                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD call (800)245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3564

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    QUATO    ZIP    243137   4-15-93  10:45a
    GO-STRT  DAT       540   1-06-93   4:57p
    SIGORDER TXT      3090   3-10-93   3:22p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3090   3-10-93   3:22p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     23528   3-15-90   1:10a
    PCSIG    TXT      2335   2-10-93   8:50a
    SHAREMAG TXT      1837   1-21-92   6:11a
    CDROM    TXT      4874   3-18-93   1:28p
            9 file(s)     308453 bytes
                            9216 bytes free
