---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3848)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3848/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3848"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M,

                1 2 t h E d i t i o n



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM, winner of the Optical Publishing
Association's Best Consumer Product Award, has added a hypermedia
interface that makes it easy to find and download any type of program
you could want. The WordCruncher text retrieval program has also been
implemented to assist you insearching this vast collection.

This CD-ROM contains over 3700 fully functional shareware programs, each
with a detailed review. The 12th Edition has added over 300 new programs
and over 500 updates since the release of the 11th Edition. The
collection is always kept current and now contains over 70 megabytes of
Windows 3.0 and 3.1 applications, fonts, icons, games and wallpaper
files.

The range of software is phenomenal! There are huge assortments of
games, everything from adventure games with full SVGA and SoundBlaster
support to favorites like Klondike, Chess and Othello. Spreadsheets,
databases, wordprocessors and graphics programs are instantly available
and there are literally hundreds of unique and specialized programs that
will save you time and money. This amazing collection will help you get
a handle on all your business and home accounting and also teach your
children about zoology.

Each of the more than 3700 programs has a one-line description for quick
reference, Just pick one of the 13 software categories and a subcategory
to begin browsing for a program that interests you. You might choose the
Games Category, where you can pick from 12 subcatgories including
Adventure, Arcade, Cards and more. A mouse click (or keyboard stroke) on
the program title takes you to a detailed description of the program.
you can immediately download the software to your hard or floppy drive,
and in many cases view a screen shot.

You can find any program in the collection quickly and easily by using
the search button. When you are in a program category just type in the
title of the program and you will be taken to the description of that
program. The popular WordCruncher text retrieval program has been added
to allow searching every description for any word within that
description, not just in the title or keywords chosen by someone who
thinks differently than you do. The WordCruncher is ideal for finding
programs which perform a specific function, just try searching for
"split", "math" or "subtract". Or switch to the Disks section where you
will find an alphabetical list of all the programs which can be searched
by program title or disk number.

Everyone has their favorite programs and we're no exception. Our 44
favorite programs can be run immediately. No downloading is necessary,
all you do is click on the word "RUN" in the program description and
you'll be working or playing with top notch software right on the CD.

The power of hypermedia will allow you to try out more software than you
ever thought possible. We are sure that you will find a multitude of
programs to your liking on the P-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT PS/2 or compatible with 640K, DOS 3.3 or
higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM player. We
recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.










T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


T h e  P C - S I G   G a m e s    C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.

T h e   P C - S I G   W o r l d   o f   G a m e s   C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The new PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM contains over 550 of the best
shareware games, including 53 educational games for children and 57
Windows games. 430 of them can be played directly from the CD without
using your hard drive space.

This edition employs the award-winning HyperReader interface, allowing
easy searching and playing by using a mouse or the keyboard.

This CD is the first in a six-volume PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware
series. Each volume will include the programs from a section of the
PC-SIG collection and also the programs and text from the current issue
of Shareware Magazine. This CD contains the entire text from the
May/June issue of Shareware Magazine, featuring hardware reviews of
the Tandy Sensation and the Media Vision Pro 16 Multimedia System.
Software reviews included cover 58 new shareware releases, security,
educational, CD audio and PIM's. 159 of the programs mentioned in the
magazine are included and can be downloaded using the HyperReader
interface.

There are also 89 programs which were updated since the last issue of
Shareware Magazine, helping those of you who have purchased the 12th
edition of the PC-SIG Library keep on top of the everchanging world
of shareware.

As well, a description of every program in the PC-SIG Library can be
searched with the WordCruncher text retrieval program. This Games CD
continues the ten year PC-SIG tradition of providing quality programs
and information to help you find the best program for your purpose.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT/PS/2 or compatible computer with 640K,
DOS 3.3 or higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM
player. We recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

For Technical information: Call 408-730-9291 and ask for Technical
Support

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $19.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $39.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $5.00  ______
($5.00 is refundable with your first order)

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

The PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM                       $19.95  ______ 

The PC-SIG 12th Edition Library CD-ROM                 $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other CD-ROM just!                    $59.00  ______

The Essential Home & Business Collection CD-ROM        $39.00  ______  

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware on CD-ROM
(1 year subscription)                                  $99.00  ______


                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD: Call (800) 245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

## README.TXT

{% raw %}
```
WinPrint 1.4 Release Notes

Release 1.44 February 5, 1992

Copyright (c) 1990-1992 Charles E. Kindel, Jr.
Portions Copyright (c) 1985-1992 Microsoft Corporation.

     Charles E. Kindel, Jr.
     22925 N.E. 12th Place
     Redmond, WA 98053
     
     CompuServe ID:  71551,1445

Please do not be shy in reporting bugs or suggestions!

For information on using WinPrint or for registering
WinPrint use WinHelp to read the WINPRINT.HLP file.

WHAT IS WINPRINT?

     WinPrint is a Windows shareware application that allows
     you to easily print ASCII text files from within
     Windows.  It allows you to specify headers and footers
     with page numbers, fonts, margins, landscape v.
     portrait mode, and "multiple pages up" printing.  See
     the WINPRINT.HLP file for a more complete description.
     
     WinPrint was designed from the very beginning to be a
     tool for printing plain text files.  Version 1.3 and
     Version 1.4 do not support the printing of graphics,
     word processing documents, or spreadsheets.  The goal
     from has been to keep WinPrint as small, efficient, and
     simple as possible.
     
     If you want to print graphics use PaintBrush it works
     just fine.  If you want to print your word processing
     documents, use your word processor, and if you want to
     print spreadsheets use your spreadsheet package; they
     all print nicely.  But if you want to print plain ASCII
     text files use WinPrint!

     The WINPRINT.HLP file contains all the documentation
     you will need.  It also contains information on how to
     register WinPrint.
     
GETTING STARTED
     
     A few quick notes on what is needed to run WinPrint:
     
     Under Windows 3.0 and 3.0a you need the following
     Dynamic Link Libraries (DLLs) in your path:
          
          TDUTIL.DLL     - WinPrint Support DLL
          COMMDLG.DLL    - Microsoft Common Dialogs DLL.
                    You only need this file if you are
                    running on Windows 3.0.
     
     You will also need the main WINPRINT.EXE executable
     file and the help file (WINPRINT.HLP).
     
     I recommend that you create a "WINAPPS" directory off
     of your root directory in which you place all of your
     "small" Windows applications such as WinPrint.  Copy
     the above files into this directory and make sure that
     the directory is in your path statement.
     
     You can now run WinPrint just as you would any Windows
     application.  See the section in the WINPRINT.HLP file
     titled STARTING WINPRINT for more details.
     
NOTES TO USERS OF WINPRINT 1.3

     WinPrint 1.32 was designed Windows 2.x application.  It
     worked correctly under Windows 3.0 because it adhered
     to Microsoft's programming guidelines for Windows.
     
     WinPrint 1.4 has been designed as a Windows 3.x
     application.  It takes advantage of features found only
     in Windows 3.0 and above.  As such, it will not run on
     Windows 2.x, and will not operate correctly with
     printer drivers that have not been updated to the
     Windows 3.0 specification.
     
     Versions of Windows previous to Windows 3.0 provided no
     way for applications to store printer settings
     "locally."  For example any change made to printer
     settings from within an application (such as landscape
     mode) were made system wide.  The Windows 3.0 printer
     driver specification allows for applications to change
     printer settings locally.  WinPrint 1.4 takes advantage
     of this, and adheres to the policy that no application
     except Control Panel can make system wide printer
     setting changes.
     
     One of the biggest bugs in WinPrint 1.32 was that it
     incorrectly selected fonts.  For example you would tell
     it to print using a 10 point font, but it would
     actually use a font much smaller.  This has been
     corrected in WinPrint 1.4.
     
     Because of the changes to WinPrint 1.4 are fundamental
     in nature, saved configurations from earlier versions
     will not be converted.  It might have been possible to
     do a partial conversion of your settings to the new
     format, but there are so many new features and bug
     fixes in 1.4 that the conversion would have been
     inaccurate at best.  The decision was made that it
     would be easier for the user to re-create your settings
     than to try to figure out what was converted correctly
     and what was not.
     
     WinPrint 1.32 saved all configuration information in
     the WIN.INI file.  WinPrint 1.4 saves all of it's
     configuration information in the WINPRINT.INI file.
     The format of the information has changed, but when
     WinPrint 1.4 is run on a machine for the first time, it
     copies your registration information to the
     WINPRINT.INI file.  Once you run WinPrint 1.4 for the
     first time you can delete all WinPrint related sections
     from your WIN.INI file if you wish.
     
     I have also changed the format of WinPrint registration
     numbers.  WinPrint 1.4 will correctly decode your 1.32
     registration number and convert it to the new format.
     This has been done for several reasons:
     
     1) The old WinPrint registration number was up to 12
     characters long and was too difficult to enter.
     
     2) The new number format allows me to more easily track
     what version of WinPrint a user is using.

KNOWN PROBLEMS
     Version 1.42 of WinPrint has been extensively tested.
     However there are a few problems that are known and are
     not worth the time it would take to fix at this point:
     
     SOME WINDOWS 3.0 PRINTER DRIVERS ARE BUGGY
          Many of the Dot Matrix printer drivers shipped
     with Windows 3.0 are buggy, and most do not in fact
     conform the the Windows 3.0 printer driver
     specification.  Because of this you will not be able to
     change printer settings from WinPrint with these
     drivers.  See the WINPRINT.HLP file for more
     information on this.
     
     POSTSCRIPT EMULATORS REPORT INCORRECT PAGE SIZE
          Several PostScript addon products and emulators
     incorrectly report page size to Windows.  The result is
     that when WinPrint is set up so all margins are set to
     0.00", some text is printed "off page."  If you
     encounter this problem simply increase all four margins
     until the problem goes away (usually 0.10" works).
     This problem has been noted on the HP LaserJet IIIsi in
     PostScript mode and the PacificPage Postscript
     cartridge for the HP LaserJet II.
     
     DOT MATRIX DRIVERS SELECT FONTS INCORRECTLY
          Some Windows 3.0 dot matrix printer drivers allow
     you to set the resoultion that they print graphics at.
     When these drivers are set at their lowest resolution
     settings they print some fonts too big.  The easy work
     around is to set the driver up to use higher resolution
     or print only with device based fonts (see
     WINPRINT.HLP for more details).
     
VERSION HISTORY
     Version 1.44 February 5, 1992
     Same as version 1.43 except distributed via standard
     shareware channels such as CompuServe.
     
     Version 1.43 February 4, 1992
     This version is a maintenece release.  It fixes some
     minor cosmetic problems.  This version will be
     distributed with a book called Windows 3.1 Power Tools.
     
     Version 1.41 February 4, 1992
     This version is a maintenence release.  Verion 1.40 had
     a major bug in the command line handling (it was
     essentailly compeletely broken).  Version 1.42 also
     removes the need for SHELL.DLL.
     
     Version 1.40 November 1, 1991
     After over a year and a half, there is finally a new
     release of WinPrint!  This version is completely re-
     vamped and updated for Windows 3.0 and 3.1.  New
     features include multiple column printing, Windows
     help, and drag drop from the Windows 3.1 file manager.
     
     Version 1.32 July 22, 1990
     The original wide distribution version.

LICENSE INFORMATION

     WinPrint is not and has never been public domain
     software, nor is it free software.  WinPrint is a
     commercial application distributed as shareware.

     Non-licensed users are granted a limited license
     (registration) to use WinPrint on a 21-day trial basis
     for the purpose of determining whether WinPrint is
     suitable for their needs.  The use of WinPrint, except
     for the initial 21-day trial, requires registration.
     The use of unlicensed (un-registered) copies of
     WinPrint by any person, business, corporation,
     government agency or any other entity is strictly
     prohibited.

     A single user license permits a user to use WinPrint
     only on a single computer.  Licensed users may use the
     program on different computers, but may not use the
     program on more than one computer at the same time.

     No one may modify or patch the WinPrint executable and
     documentation files in any way, including but not
     limited to decompiling, disassembling, or otherwise
     reverse engineering the program.

     A limited license is granted to copy and distribute
     WinPrint only for the trial use of others, subject to
     the above limitations, and also the following:

     1)   WinPrint must be copied in unmodified form,
          complete with the file containing this license
          information.

     2)   The WinPrint product consists of the following
          files:
          WINPRINT.EXE, TDUTIL.DLL, README.TXT, and
          WINPRINT.HLP.  All of these files must be copied
          in unmodified form.

     3)   WinPrint may not be distributed in conjunction
          with any other product with out a specific license
          to do so from Charles E. Kindel, Jr.

     4)   No fee, charge, or other compensation may be
          requested or accepted, except as authorized below:

          A)   Operators of electronic bulletin board
               systems (sysops) may make WinPrint available
               for downloading only as long as the above
               conditions are met.  An overall or time-
               dependent charge for the use of the bulletin
               board system is permitted as long as there is
               not a specific charge for the download of
               WinPrint.
     
          B)   Vendors may charge a disk duplication and
               handling fee, which may not exceed eight
               dollars.

LIMITED WARRANTY

     Charles E. Kindel, Jr. guarantees your satisfaction
     with this product for a period of 90 days from the date
     of original purchase.  If you are unsatisfied with
     WinPrint within that time period contact Charles E.
     Kindel, Jr. via normal or electronic mail for a full
     refund.

     Charles E. Kindel, Jr. warrants that the program will
     perform in substantial compliance with the
     documentation supplied with the software product.  If a
     significant defect in the product is found, the
     Purchaser may obtain a refund.  In no event will such a
     refund exceed the purchase price of the product.

     EXCEPT AS PROVIDED ABOVE, CHARLES E. KINDEL, JR.
     DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
     INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
     MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE,
     WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCT.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE
     DEFECTIVE, THE PURCHASER ASSUMES THE RISK OF PAYING THE
     ENTIRE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR, OR
     CORRECTION AND ANY INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES.
     IN NO EVENT WILL CHARLES E. KINDEL, JR. BE LIABLE FOR
     ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION
     DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS, BUSINESS
     INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION AND THE
     LIKE) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR THE INABILITY TO USE
     THIS PRODUCT EVEN IF CHARLES E. KINDEL, JR. HAS BEEN
     ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

     Use of this product for any period of time constitutes
     your acceptance of this agreement and subjects you to
     its contents.

U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS

     Use, duplication, or disclosure by the Government is
     subject to restrictions as set forth in subdivision
     (b)(3)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer
     Software clause at 252.227-7013.
     Contractor/manufacturer is Charles E. Kindel, Jr.,
     22925 N.E. 12th Place, Redmond, WA 98053.

```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3848

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    WINPRINT ZIP    116819   7-09-93  11:05a
    GO-STRT  DAT       541   6-01-93  11:07a
    SIGORDER TXT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2329   6-01-93   2:31p
    SHAREMAG TXT      1831   6-01-93   2:32p
    CDROM    TXT      8196   6-01-93   3:26p
            9 file(s)     191788 bytes
                          124928 bytes free
