---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3871)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3871/
machines:
  - id: ibm5150
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5150/cga/256kb/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3871"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5150" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## WCB.DOC

{% raw %}
```














           W I N D O W S     C O L O R I N G     B O O K  (tm)

                            REFERENCE  MANUAL

                          Shareware Version 1.0












                         K I N D E R W A R E (tm)
                          Educational  Software






                             Kinderware, Inc.
                              P. O. Box 1068
                        North Bend, OH  45052-1068
                              (513) 941-7295






           This manual and the WINDOWS COLORING BOOK program are
                  Copyright (C) 1993 by  Kinderware, Inc.
                            All rights reserved.

  WINDOWS COLORING BOOK and KINDERWARE are trademarks of Kinderware, Inc.


                                COPYRIGHT

The WINDOWS Coloring Book program and manual are (C) Copyright 1993 by
Kinderware, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.


                                DISCLAIMER                                                                                    LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

THE WINDOWS COLORING BOOK SOFTWARE IS SUPPLIED AS IS.  KINDERWARE, INC.
MAKES NO WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH
RESPECT TO THIS PROGRAM, REFERENCE MANUAL OR DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING THEIR
QUALITY, PERFORMANCE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

IN NO EVENT WILL KINDERWARE, INC. BE LIABLE FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO
USE THE PROGRAM, REFERENCE MANUAL OR DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF KINDERWARE,
INC. IS ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  IN PARTICULAR,
KINDERWARE, INC. IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY COSTS INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO THOSE INCURRED AS A RESULT OF LOST PROFITS OR REVENUE, LOSS OF USE OF
COMPUTER PROGRAMS, LOSS OF DATA, THE COST OF A SUBSTITUTE PROGRAM, CLAIMS
BY THIRD PARTIES OR FOR OTHER SIMILAR COSTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL KINDERWARE,
INC.'S LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES EVER EXCEED THE PRICE PAID FOR THE LICENSE
TO USE THE SOFTWARE, REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF CLAIM.  THE PERSON USING THE
SOFTWARE BEARS ALL RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.

Some states do not allow the exclusion of the limit of liability for
consequential or incidental damages, so the above limitation may not apply
to you.

This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio and shall
inure to the benefit of Kinderware, Inc. and any successors,
administrators, heirs and assigns.  Any action or proceeding brought by
either party against the other arising out of or related to this agreement
shall be brought only in a STATE or FEDERAL COURT of competent jurisdiction
located in HAMILTON county, OHIO.  The parties hereby consent to in
personam jurisdiction of said courts.

Kinderware, Inc. reserves the right to update the contents of the WINDOWS
COLORING BOOK program and its associated documentation at its discretion
and without the consent of or any obligation to any licensed users.


                      LICENSE for Shareware version

WINDOWS COLORING BOOK is NOT public domain or free software.  This version
of WINDOWS COLORING BOOK is distributed as "SHAREWARE".  WINDOWS COLORING
BOOK is Copyright (C) 1993 by Kinderware, Inc.  All rights reserved.
Kinderware, Inc. permits the copying and transfer of the SHAREWARE VERSION
of WINDOWS COLORING BOOK to others, under the following conditions:

1. No fee shall be charged for copies of any portion of the WINDOWS
   Coloring Book program, its documentation or other information contained
   on the WINDOWS COLORING BOOK diskette(s).  A charge for the copying
   service and media is allowed as long as this charge does not exceed
   $10.00.
                                    2
2. The recipient receives an unmodified copy of all the WINDOWS COLORING
   BOOK files, INCLUDING THIS DOCUMENT.

3. Any copy of WINDOWS COLORING BOOK transferred to another may contain
   only the files distributed with the Shareware version.  Additional
   files which are supplied to registered users may not be transferred to
   others without the written consent of Kinderware, Inc.

4. You may not disassemble or decompile the WINDOWS COLORING BOOK files or
   in any fashion attempt to reverse engineer the program.

Any copy of WINDOWS COLORING BOOK sold or copied in such a manner as to
violate the above conditions shall be subject to a royalty fee of $100.00
for each violation.

Kinderware, Inc. encourages the copying and transfer of the SHAREWARE
version of WINDOWS Coloring Book to others so that it may be evaluated by
as many interested users as possible. After a reasonable evaluation period,
it is expected that the users either register their copy of the program or
discontinue using it.


                         REGISTRATION INFORMATION

The cost of user registration is $29.00.  This registration fee provides
you with the following benefits:

1. You will receive the commercial version of WINDOWS COLORING BOOK and you
   will be licensed to operate the WINDOWS COLORING BOOK program on one
   computer and by one user at a time.  You will also receive a printed
   manual.  The commercial version of WINDOWS COLORING BOOK has the ability
   to load your own BMP or PCX files directly!  This capability gives our
   registered users an extra THANK YOU for supporting the work we are doing
   here at Kinderware, Inc.

2. It provides you with a total of eighty (80) pictures for use with the
   program.  This total includes the six that came with the Shareware
   version.

3. It will put you on the mailing list to receive information about
   additional pictures and WINDOWS COLORING BOOK updates when they become
   available. Mailings will also inform you when other programs from
   Kinderware, Inc. are released.

4. Registered users of Kinderware, Inc.'s products will receive discounts
   on new products when they are released.

5. It will provide you with the ability to report problems and receive
   assistance from Kinderware, Inc.

Site licenses are available.  Please contact Kinderware, Inc. for
information and prices.



                                    3
If you purchased the Shareware version from a Shareware Distributor then
the price you paid went directly to the Shareware Distributor for the media
and the diskette duplication. Kinderware, Inc. only receives compensation
when you BUY the commercial version from us.

We encourage you to support the "Shareware" method of software distribution
by becoming a registered user.  Registration is inexpensive and provides
the many benefits described above.  An order form is provided in the file
WCBORDER.FRM.  VISA and MASTERCARD payments are accepted.  You can phone or
FAX your order for faster service.  Our telephone number is:
1-513-941-7295. If you call please do so between 7PM and 10PM Eastern
Standard Time.













                        TRADEMARK ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

Kinderware, EGA Coloring Book, Windows Coloring Book and Word Gallery are
trademarks of Kinderware, Inc.  Microsoft and MS-DOS are registered
trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.  IBM, XT, AT and PC-DOS are registered
trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation.


                            REQUIRED EQUIPMENT

WINDOWS COLORING BOOK will run on most IBM or compatible computers under
Windows 3.0 or 3.1 with VGA graphics capability and 4 Mbytes of RAM.
A hard disk and a mouse are required.


                               INTRODUCTION

WINDOWS COLORING BOOK (WCB) is a computer coloring book.  It allows
children to use over 400 colors and patterns to color pictures on the
computer.  Children, age 3 and up, will enjoy bringing the pictures to life
with color.  WCB teaches eye-hand coordination and encourages artistic
expression.

WCB is very easy to use.  We have been told by registered users that WCB is
one of the few programs that their 3 year old children can actually use
alone. Registered users also report that the only problem their kids have
is getting the parents and grandparents to stop using WCB.  WCB is very
easy for young children to use since most of the common commands have
picture icons which can be easily identified.

                                    4
WINDOWS COLORING BOOK is a great program to use to introduce the computer
to children.  They will have so much fun, they won't even realize that they
are learning basic computer skills.

WCB runs in the VGA high resolution (640 x 480) 16 color mode to provide
beautifully detailed pictures and hundreds of vivid colors (produced by
mixing the 16 screen colors).
	
We are confident that WINDOWS COLORING BOOK will provide many happy hours
of entertainment for the entire family.

Please become a registered user.  Be sure to write any questions or
suggestions you might have on the back of your order form so that we can
continue to improve the program in the ways that you want most.


                     INSTALLATION AND GETTING STARTED

Before attempting to use the WINDOWS COLORING BOOK program, please make a
backup copy of the WINDOWS COLORING BOOK diskette(s). Consult your DOS
manual for instructions on performing this procedure.

You must install WINDOWS COLORING BOOK on a Hard Disk.  Put Disk #1 in your
floppy drive and from the Program Manager select File, Run.  Type the
floppy drive letter (A or B), followed by a colon and the word SETUP.
Click the OK button and WINDOWS COLORING BOOK will install itself.

The files will all fit on any size diskette except 5.25 360K diskettes.  If
you want to put the files on 360K diskettes you will need two (2) diskettes
and they should be organized as follows:

  Disk 1:  SETUP1.EXE, SETUP.EXE, SETUP.LST, SETUPKIT.DL_, VER.DL_ and
           VBRUN200.DL_
  Disk 2:  DUCKPOND.*, UNDERSEA.*, HOUSE.*, SEASHORE.*, COWBOY.*, SHIP.*,
           CMDIALOG.VB_, COMMDLG.DL_, GXWIN.DL_, PCXWIN.DL_, THREED.VB_,
           WCB.DOC, WCB.EX_, WCBORDER.FRM

To upload the files to a BBS please make two compressed files organized as
shown above.  Name them WCB10A.ZIP and WCB10B.ZIP.

Some of the files will be installed in the Windows System subdirectory on
your hard drive.  Most of these files are required to run the program, but
a few are necessary only for installation.  These files may be removed
after you have successfully installed the program:  SETUP1.EXE and
SETUPKIT.DLL.

To run the program, simply double click on the WINDOWS COLORING BOOK icon
from the Program Manager.  After the program is loaded, a title page will
appear and then a few Shareware information screens.  Click on the OK
button to move through these pages, after you have read them of course.
When the last page has been read, click the OK button and the program will
begin.



                                    5
                       USING WINDOWS COLORING BOOK

WINDOWS COLORING BOOK is very easy to use.

After starting the program, WINDOWS COLORING BOOK will ask you to enter
your name.  Please see the description of the NAME command for more
information.  After selecting a name, a window will open that allows you to
select which picture you would like to color.  A small version of each
picture will be displayed on its own command button.  A scroll bar appears
below the buttons and it allows you to scroll through the available
pictures.  The scroll bar should not be needed with the Shareware version
since it will work with only the six pictures that come with the program.
If no picture files are found, then the command buttons will be blank.  If
this occurs, then you can press the New Path button and specify a new
drive:directory where the picture files may be found. Please see the
description of the PICTURE and NEW PATH commands for more information. When
you have selected a picture, the picture selection window will disappear
and the picture and color palette will be displayed. If this picture has
been previously colored, the program will use the coloring data (stored in
the coloring data file) to recolor the picture.  You may then start
coloring or recoloring the picture.

SHORTCUT KEYS

In general, all command buttons may be invoked by pressing the key that
corresponds to the letter that is underlined on the button.  When you are
coloring, you may invoke any of the Menu Commands (Erase, Recolor, etc.) by
pressing the desired function's shortcut key.  This will have the same
effect as clicking on the MENU command button and then clicking on the
desired function's command button in the Menu Command Window.

The following list describes the shortcut keys that may be used when you
are not entering menu commands.  The keys that invoke functions from the
Menu Command Window may be used even if the Menu Command Window is not
currently active.

  F1    This key will cause the Help Window to open.  The F1 key may be used
        at almost any time to get help, even if you are entering Menu
        Commands.
  1     This key will cause the first set of colors to be displayed in the
        Color Palette.
  2     This key will cause the second set of colors to be displayed in the
        Color Palette.
  3     This key will cause the third set of colors to be displayed in the
        Color Palette.
  M     This key will open the Menu Command Window.
  O     This key will invoke the OOPS function.
  E     This key will invoke the ERASE command.
  R     This key will invoke the RECOLOR command.
  P     This key will invoke the PICTURE command.
  N     This key will invoke the NAME command.
  T     This key will invoke the PRINT command.
  H     This key will invoke the HELP command.
  Q,ESC These keys will invoke the QUIT command.

                                    6
The WCB screen consists of three main sections.  The top part of the screen
contains the color palette and a few command buttons.  The center part
displays the picture to color.  Below the picture is the status information.

SELECTING THE ACTIVE COLOR PALETTE

The Color Palette displays 144 colors, each in its own small box.  You can
choose to display any one of three sets of colors.  To the left of the
Color Palette, in the upper left hand corner of the screen, there are three
small palette selection buttons.  Each one has a crayon and a number on it.
Clicking one of these buttons will activate the associated color palette.
You can also type the number that appears on the button to select the
palette.  You should display all three palettes to familiarize yourself
with the available colors.

SELECTING THE ACTIVE CRAYON COLOR

Clicking the left mouse button on the desired color in the active color
palette will make that color the active crayon color.  The active crayon
color is indicated by a white outline around the selected color's box in
the active color palette display.  The Current Color Box will also change
to indicate the currently selected color.  The Current Color Box is located
just to the right of the Color Palette at the top of the screen.

If you double click the left mouse button on a color in the third Color
Palette, the Change Color Window will open.  This window will allow you to
alter the Red, Green and Blue content of the color.  You can do this by moving
the scroll bars, or by typing a decimal value between 0 and 255 in the text
boxes.  You will have to experiment with this feature to learn its
capabilities.  This feature is disabled when Easy Mode is turned on. Easy
Mode is described later.

COLORING THE PICTURE

Once you have selected the desired color, you can then "color" an area of
the picture.  To color an area, simply move the mouse cursor to point at
the desired area and click the left mouse button.  You may color over an
area that has already been colored.  If the mouse cursor is pointing at the
outline of an area (the black lines making up the picture) when the left
button is clicked, then you will hear the error sound and no coloring will
be done. Each time you color an area the "color command" is added to the
list in memory.  Eventually, this list may become full if you color a lot
of areas that have already been colored.  Please see the description of the
RECOLOR command for information about this situation.











                                    7
ENTERING AND EDITING TEXT STRINGS

When it is necessary for you to enter or edit a text string, the following
special editing keys may be used:

  <Home>         Go to the beginning of the string
  <End>          Go to the end of the string
  <Del>          Delete the character at the text cursor
  <BACKSPACE>    Delete the character to the left of the text cursor
  <Ins>          Toggles the insert state
  <left arrow>   Move the text cursor one character to the left
  <right arrow>  Move the text cursor one character to the right
  <ENTER>        Enter the string and return

EASY MODE

WCB may be placed into an EASY MODE.  This mode is very useful for young
children.  When in this mode, a few of the harder commands will not be
available.  The commands that are not available are:  PRINT, PICTURE/NEW
PATH and Change Color.  To put WCB into Easy Mode hold the <CTRL> key and
press the <E> key on the keyboard.  A window will open displaying the
status of Easy Mode.  To take WCB out of Easy Mode, press the same key
(<CTRL>-<E>).  Note that this selection may only be made when you are not
entering Menu Commands.

OOPS

As you color the picture, WCB remembers how you have colored it.  It keeps
a list of "color commands" in memory.  Clicking the left mouse button on
the OOPS command button will undo the last color command.  This is useful
if you accidentally color an area that was previously colored.  Clicking on
the OOPS command button will restore the area to its previous color.  You
may use the OOPS command any number of times in a row.  It will always undo
the last color command on the list and then remove that command from the
list.  If the list is empty, then you will hear the error sound and no
action will be performed.

MENU

Clicking the left mouse button on the MENU command button will cause the
Menu Command Window to be displayed.  The Menu Command Window contains
eight command buttons. The use of each command button is explained below.
The MENU command may be cancelled by pressing the <ESC> key or by clicking
the left mouse button on the CANCEL command button.











                                    8
THE MENU COMMANDS

ERASE

Click the left mouse button on the ERASE command button if you want to
erase the colors from your picture.  When this command is selected, a
window will open that ask you: "Do you really want to erase the picture?".
If you want to continue with the erasure then click the left mouse button
on the ERASE command button in this window.  Click the left mouse button on
the CANCEL command button to abort the erase command. The keys <E> and <C>
may be used to indicate an Erase or Cancel response.

RECOLOR

Click the left mouse button on the RECOLOR command button when you would
like the picture to be erased and recolored.  This command was included for
two reasons. The first reason is that during the recoloring, redundant
color data is removed from the "color command" list. The other reason is
that young children like to watch the "computer" color the picture.  The
program may automatically execute this command if the color command list
becomes too large to fit in memory.  This should only happen if you color a
lot of areas that have already been colored. If this should happen, the
program will put a message on the screen before it begins the "recoloring
process".  After you click the Ok command button, the program will begin
the "recoloring process". The only problem caused by recoloring is that the
OOPS command will no longer restore an area's previous color (the area will
be colored white). This is because the RECOLOR command has determined that
the previous coloring of an area was redundant and has removed it from the
"color command" list.  The OOPS command will operate properly for any new
"color commands" added to the list after the recoloring process has
completed.

PICTURE

Click the left mouse button on the PICTURE command button when you would
like to select a new picture.  When you select the PICTURE command the
Picture Selection Window will open to provide the command buttons that are
needed to select a new picture.  Six buttons will appear and each will
contain the name of the file and a small version of the picture that it
represents.  Beneath the picture buttons, there will be a scroll bar that
will allow you to scroll through the available pictures.

If the file that contains the small version of the picture cannot be found,
then that picture's command button will only contain the name of the file
and a new command button will appear in the window.  This command button is
the Create SBM button.  If you click on this button, then WCB will generate
an .SBM file (small version) for the picture.








                                    9
All of the files in the selected directory with the extensions .PCX, .BMP
and .WCB will appear on their own command buttons.  The files that have the
extension .WCB are special compressed Windows Coloring Book files.  The
Shareware version of the program will only work with the six pictures that
come with WCB.  If a picture other than one of the included pictures is
selected, a message will appear that explains the problem.  If you register
WCB you will receive the commercial version which will allow you to load
any picture file (.PCX or .BMP) that you like.

NEW PATH

If you do not have Easy Mode selected, then the New Path command button
will appear in the Picture Selection window.  If you click on the New Path
command button, then you can select a drive and directory that you want WCB
to use when searching for picture files.  The Path Selection Window will
open and allow you to select a drive and a directory.  This window will
also show you a list of the files that WCB finds in the directory you
currently have selected.

NAME

Click the left mouse button on the NAME command target if you want to
specify the name of the user.  When the NAME command is selected, the Name
Selection Window will open.  This window provides ten Name Selection
command buttons that allow you to tell WCB who you are.  Each of these
buttons contains a name and a picture icon.  You can select a picture icon
that matches your appearance so that yours is easy to pick out.  Clicking
one of these command buttons will change the Current User information at
the bottom of the window.  The Current User information consists of a text
box that displays the name and an icon command button that displays the
picture icon.  Once you have selected a name, that name can be edited and a
new icon can be chosen.  Just use the mouse cursor to click somewhere in
the text box and a text cursor will appear.  You can then edit the name. To
change the icon, simply click on the icon command button repeatedly until
the picture icon you desire is displayed.  You can customize the name and
icon for all ten of the Name Selection command buttons.  When the Current
User information appears the way you want it, then press the Ok command
button and the Name Selection Window will disappear.

Each of the ten users will have their own colored versions of the pictures
saved.

PRINT

Click the left mouse button on the PRINT command button when you would like
to print the current picture.  You may print the picture in black and white
or in color.  When printed in black and white, only the outlines of the
areas are printed (even if the picture is colored on the screen). These
black and white pictures may then be colored with real crayons the old
fashioned way.  If your printer is capable of printing colors and is
supported by Windows, then you may print the pictures in color.




                                   10
When you select the PRINT command, the Print Options Window will open to
allow you to select the printing options.  The top of the window will
provide a selection for either black and white or color printing.  Just
click on the type of picture you would like to print.  If the default
Windows printer does not have color capability, then the color selection
will be grayed and you will not be able to choose it.  Below this there are
three command buttons.  The Cancel command button can be used to cancel the
PRINT command and return to coloring.  Use this button if you pressed the
PRINT command button by accident or you change your mind.  The Setup
command button will display the standard Windows printer setup dialog box.
This dialog box allows you to select the active Windows printer and choose
portrait or landscape orientation.  Many other options may also be
specified from this dialog box.  Consult your Windows manual for
information on all these options.  Once you have set all the options, then
simply click on the Print command button and your picture will be printed.

NOTE: Some of the early Windows 3.1 Postscript printer drivers will not
properly print the bitmapped picture.  If you have problems, try to get an
updated driver for your printer.  Many drivers can be found on the
Microsoft BBS at 1-206-637-9009.  It's a long distance call but use of the
BBS is free.

HELP

Click the left mouse button on the HELP command button if you want to
display the Help Window.  The Help Window contains many command buttons.
If you click on these buttons, then the panel at the bottom of the screen
will display help text about the button's topic.  To exit the Help Window
click on the Exit Help command button.

QUIT
 
Click the left mouse button on the QUIT command target if you want to quit
the program.  When this command is selected, you will be asked "Do you
really want to quit?". If you want to exit the program and return to DOS
then click the left mouse button on the Quit command target.  Click the
left mouse button on the Cancel command target to abort the QUIT command.

NOTE:  When you exit the program, setup data will be written to the file
KINDERWR.INI in your Windows directory.


                                 SUMMARY

All of us at Kinderware hope you and your children enjoy WINDOWS COLORING
BOOK.  We thank you for evaluating the program and we hope to add your name
to the growing list of registered users.








                                   11
                              WORD GALLERY

We would like to make you aware of another children's educational program
developed here at Kinderware.  This program is also distributed as
Shareware.  WORD GALLERY provides a set of colorful word-object flashcards.
These flashcards are used to play a variety of games.  Your children will
enjoy watching the screen fill with color as they use WORD GALLERY.

Version 3.0 of WORD GALLERY was released in November of 1991.  It consists
of five separate games:

Flashcards - either word first or picture first
Matching - match the picture with the word or the word with the picture
Missing letters - supply the missing letter
Spelling - spell the complete word
Word guess - similar to hangman, but you can have picture hints

Many options can be selected such as difficulty, case of the letters, sound
and music.  The program plays a familiar children's song after a number of
responses have been entered.  The Shareware version has 50 word/picture
flashcards, and the commercial version comes with over 250 more to make the
total just over 300.  A utility is provided that allows you to select which
words should be used. This lets you tailor the program to your child's
ability.  The mouse cursor is a cute animated bee that the children can
"fly" around the screen to make their selections.  The words can be
displayed in six languages (English, Spanish, French, German, Italian and
Dutch).  The program includes digitized speech for the words that can
played through the Sound Blaster, Covox Speech Thing or the PC internal
speaker if your machine is fast enough.  The internal speaker playback may
not work on all machines.  The digitized speech is only in English.

If you register WINDOWS COLORING BOOK and WORD GALLERY together, you pay
only $21.50 for WORD GALLERY instead of the usual $24.00. If you would like
a copy of the Shareware version of WORD GALLERY, then include an additional
$2.00 (to cover materials and shipping only) with your WCB order.

NOTE: Word Gallery is an MS-DOS program.  It is not a Windows Application.
      It can, however, be run from Windows as a full screen application.
      The digitized speech will not work on the internal PC speaker when
      WG is run from Windows.  It will work with the Sound Blaster and Covox
      Speech Thing.















                                   12
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3871

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    WCB      EX_     77447   4-27-93   9:31p
    WCB      DOC     29427   2-16-93   8:31p
    WCBORDER FRM      3240   2-08-93  12:43p
    UNDERSEA SB_      1450   2-03-93  12:24p
    SHIP     SB_      1008   2-03-93  12:20p
    SEASHORE SB_      1167   2-03-93  12:19p
    HOUSE    SB_      1011   2-03-93  12:12p
    DUCKPOND SB_      1402   2-03-93  12:09p
    COWBOY   SB_      1444   2-03-93  12:07p
    COWBOY   WCB     11454   2-02-93  10:53p
    CMDIALOG VB_     10684  10-21-92
    THREED   VB_     31220  10-21-92
    HOUSE    WCB      6761   9-10-92  11:22p
    SHIP     WCB      6199   8-21-92  11:02p
    SEASHORE WCB      7483   8-21-92   9:17p
    UNDERSEA WCB     10649   8-16-92  11:08p
    DUCKPOND WCB      9969   8-16-92  10:24a
    GXWIN    DL_      3980   5-01-92   1:00a
    PCXWIN   DL_      5821   5-01-92   1:00a
    COMMDLG  DL_     50924   3-10-92   3:10a
           20 file(s)     272740 bytes
                           39936 bytes free
