---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3740)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3740/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3740"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## ABOUT.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                    BEYOND THE LIMITS OF

                          INFORMATION AND NETWORKING

                                          CONNECTIONS

                                           there is BLINC,

         THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER FOR WINDOWS

                                          published by

                                 Eastern Digital Resources
                                          PO Box 1451
                                Clearwater, SC  29822-1451
                                      Tel. (803) 593-0870

            This edition of BLINC is distributed as shareware.  
     You may freely copy and distribute this program to others.

                                Please register your copy.
               SHAREWARE REGISTRATION JUST $35.00

  
  
  Quick,  tell me who is  the manager of  the local Pizza
  Hut.  Or  how about the  Vice President for  commercial
  development  at the bank.  Can you tell me the pastor's
  name at Trinity Methodist Church.

  Do any of these  people have interest in Little  League
  Baseball?

  If  you live and work in  the local business community,
  those  kinds of  questions  are  asked constantly,  and
  while the information is public knowledge, knowing  the
  details and being able to use those contacts is the key
  to being a successful business executive.

                      IT'S OK TO DREAM

  Over the years, folks have asked me over and over for a
  system to provide that information; something that will
  allow  me to  keep up  with  my business  contacts, and
  prospect  for  new  customers.   Looking  back  now,  I
  realize that most of the early attempts at implementing
  the dream were rather pathetic.  The systems provided a
  basic data base of businesses, or a list of people, but
  was virtually helpless in  showing and manipulating the
  relationships between the two.

  But,  Beyond the  Limits of Information  and Networking
  Connections, there is BLINC, the exciting new data base
  and prospecting system.   Now you  can know the  movers
  and shakers behind your local market.

  If  you do  business with business,  you need  BLINC to
  effectively prospect your market.

             MORE THAN JUST A MAILING LIST

  The  thing  that makes  BLINC  unique  is  that it's  a
  relationship manager.  When I've been asked in the past
  for a mailing  list manager that provides  (you fill in
  the  blanks) details about  the folks on  the list, the
  links a person  has to the  organization has been  made
  secondary to the name and address information.

  But what you really want to know is;

  Who's the president of
  Who works for
  Give me a list of outside sales reps
  I need to know the doctors who work at
  Who are the real estate agents I know

  and are any  of these folks affiliated  with the groups
  I'm a member of.


                       THE END OF A DREAM

  Some dreams  die a  rather harsh death  when confronted
  with the  reality of  day to day  business competition.
  Others fade  away in  the realization, the  realization
  that  what you've  actually dreamed  of for  years, has
  finally  come  to  pass  and  you  can  experience  it,
  sometimes beyond your wildest imaginations.

  BLINC  is  such a  product.   While working  on another
  problem about a year ago, I suddenly realized  that the
  relationships  are the  key  to  an  effective  contact
  manager.    Therefore,  BLINC  is  centered around  the
  relationships between  people and  groups.  On  the one
  hand you  have the group (a  business, charity, church,
  civic club) and on the other hand members.  Some groups
  have a one to one relationship with a member, as in the
  Director  of the Red Cross,  Others have a  one to many
  relationship,  as   in  donors   to  the  Health   Care
  Foundation.   And  still  others have  a  many to  many
  relationship  as  in  members   of  the  local  Baptist
  Churches.

  BLINC  can handle  them  all.   You  can add  your  own
  details to the people  and organizations already in the
  data  base   or  you  can  even  add  new  members  and
  organizations.  And since BLINC operates with Microsoft
  WINDOWS,  it's  quick  and  as  easy  as  pointing  and
  pressing a button.

  BLINC is great for prospecting.  In addition to all the
  standard stuff like mailing labels, customized letters,
  and  roladex cards,  BLINC incorporates  the electronic
  version  of sticky notes.  Any person or group can have
  a  sticky note attached to  remind you of  a date or to
  record an important  event.   Use it to  keep track  of
  sales, remind you of  luncheon dates, and call  back on
  prospects.   Like the groups and  members files, sticky
  notes knows about  relationships and that provides  the
  key  difference  between BLINC  and  assorted unrelated
  pieces of paper.

                  OUR IRONCLAD GUARANTEE

  Use BLINC for  90 days.  If it  doesn't fit your needs,
  return  it and  we'll  refund your  money.   It's  that
  simple, no ifs, ands or buts, about it.

               WHY YOU SHOULD REGISTER BLINC

When you register your copy you will receive the most recent
edition.  The shareware edition is always 1 release behind
the registered version.  When we release a new edition to
our registered users, we then upload the earlier version to
selected bulletin boards.

Registered users are not presented with the BLINC invoicing
screen each time the program is run, saving you the trouble 
of choosing Cancel or Print before you can use the program.

Registered users will also receive 1 FREE year's subscrip-
tion to our magazine JUST SOFTWARE.  This magazine features
articles on software and computer usage without the
overwhelming hardware focus that most magazines have.

P.S.  If you don't want to register BLINC, you can still
subscribe to JUST SOFTWARE - 1 yr. $15.00 - 2 yrs. $25.00.

When you register you will also receive over $100 in FREE
discount coupons for other computer products and services.

You'll receive special access to our Answer Line for telephone
support on the use of the program.

And finally, FREE upgrades to BLINC for 1 year from date of
purchase.  (There is a nominal $7.00 shipping and handling
fee).

Send your payment to: Eastern Digital Resources - PO Box
1451 - Clearwater, SC  29822-1451.

                     ... and we thank you for your support!




                           License


BLINC is not, nor has ever been, public domain or free
software.   The commercial, registered version of BLINC may
not be duplicated  other than for backup purposes. A
registered copy of BLINC must be treated like a book, in
that the same registered copy of BLINC may not be used in
more than one computer at the same time, just as a book may
not be read by more than one person at the same time
(without making an illegal copy).  Users are granted a
limited license to use the User Supported, trial version of
BLINC for a limited evaluation period of up to 45 days, in
order to determine if it suits their needs. Any other use of
BLINC or use past this period requires registration.  All
users are granted a limited license to copy the User
Supported version of BLINC only for the purpose of allowing
others to try it, subject to the above restrictions as well
as these: 

BLINC must be distributed in absolutely unmodified form, in- 
cluding ALL program, documentation, and other files.  BLINC
may not be included with any other product for any reason
whatsoever without a license from Eastern Digital Resources. 
No charge or payment may be levied or accepted for BLINC. 
Bulletin Board system operators may post the unregistered,
User Supported version of BLINC on their BBS for downloading
by their users without written permission only if the above
conditions are met, and only if no special fee is necessary
to access the BLINC files (a general fee to access the BBS
is ok).  The following section contains information on
registration and licensing.

              REGISTRATION/ORDERING INFORMATION

Registering BLINC allows you to use the product after the
trial period. Registered BLINC users get the current copy of
BLINC on disk along with their own serial number, mailed
notification of major BLINC updates, and priority when
calling for BLINC Software support.  (we guarantee no
support to unregistered users). Most importantly, registered
users know they are helping to make sure that high-quality
software like BLINC continues to be sold in this low cost
way.  BLINC registration costs $35 US, and includes
'registered' copy of BLINC on  disk.  An evaluation disk 
with the current  copy of BLINC  on it is also available for
$7 US.  This is to  be used to try out BLINC, and does not 
include  registration (the right to use BLINC after the
evaluation period).  The fee covers the cost of diskette(s)
and handling.   Payment may be in the form of check,  money
order, or with a VISA card.  We also accept corporate
purchase orders.
 
To place an order, please use the order form on the
following page, or call us at (803)-393-0870 with your VISA
or Mastercard.

   
              QUANTITY AND CORPORATE PURCHASES

    There is an invoice form on the install diskette which
following page may be used to reguster your copy of BLINC.
Discounts on multiple copies are as follows:

                        1 -  10 copies     no discount
                       11 -  20 copies    10% discount
                       21 -  50 copies    15% discount
                       51 - 100 copies    22% discount
                      101 - 200 copies    30% discount
                      200+      copies    40% discount

       Purchases  of up  to 50  copies are  bulk purchases 
and include that many copies of BLINC on disk,  as with
single registrations. Purchases of  51 or more copies are
site licenses.  Eastern Digital Resources provides a master
copy  of BLINC and the  appropriate number of diskette 
labels.  The licensee is responsible for copying the disks
(backups of the MASTER do not count towards the total
copies in the license).  The name on the order form is
considered the contact and is the person with whom all 
correspondence will take place.

Note: All prices and discounts are subject to change without
notice.  Discounts apply only to separate orders, they are
not cumulative.





  SYSTEM  REQUIREMENTS:  IBM compatible 80286 
  computer or higher, 2 megabytes of memory, VGA 
  monitor,  Windows 3.0 or higher and dot matrix 
  or laser printer.

  For information or to order, call (803) 593-0870

                 Eastern Digital Resources
                        PO Box 1451
                 Clearwater, SC  29822-1451

                   OTHER RELATED PRODUCTS FROM
                   EASTERN DIGITAL RESOURCES
  
                         ZIP FINDER II
  
  Zip Finder ii is a complete city level zip code
  directory of over 42,000 zip codes which you can use to 
  validate cities and zip codes and will save you a great 
  deal of time when entering names and addresses because you 
  won't have to type the city and state.  With the addition 
  of a CD-ROM drive and Accumail, Zip Finder ii will also 
  add zip plus 4 codes, carrier route codes, and delivery 
  point codes to your mailing list.  Zip Finder ii is 
  designed to intergrate with BLINC and is available 
  separately from Eastern Digital Resources for $79.95.

                 ZIP PLUS 4 YOUR LIST AND SAVE $$$

  If you can't justify the cost of a CD-ROM drive, and the
  Accumail database, we will update your list for you and
  add the zip plus 4 codes and delivery point codes so you
  can take advantage of maximum postal discounts.  Up to 2000
  names for just $45.00.  Additional thousands to 10,000 for
  $12.00 / m.  Call for details and pricing on larger lists.
  Strict Confidentiality assured.

                NEED MAILING LISTS - WE'VE GOT EM

  We currently maintain over 80,000 names in house of computer
  users, dealers, VARS, and opportunity seekers.  Available
  on diskette or peel and stick labels at $65.00 per thousand.
  Give us a call to discuss your list needs.

                  COMPS - The Complete Realtor Database

  Now you can use BLINC to maintain information on people and
  COMPS to maintain your listings.  These two programs integrate
  to give you a complete Windows based system for managing
  the real estate agents most time consuming tasks.... $135.00

                     
                         BLINC TOOLKIT

  The shareware version of BLINC will handle a limited number of
  records.  This limitation is dependent on the amount of memory
  you have installed in your computer.  A system with 4 megabytes
  of memory will handle approximately 3,000 records in each data
  file.  The BLINC toolkit will allow you to handle an unlimited
  number of records.  With Toolkit you can also merge multiple
  files and purge duplicate records.  Toolkit includes a
  report generator, allowing you to define your own label formats
  and report layouts.  The BLINC Toolkit is required for using
  BLINC in a multi-user mode on a network.  You may install
  BLINC on a network in a single user configuration, but no 
  internal safeguards are in place to protect your data should
  two people access it simultaneously.  A real bargain for just 
  $79.95.  The features included in Toolkit would cost you
  hundreds of dollars with other programs.

                                   DUPFINDER

  Dupfinder is designed to allow you to find those annoying
  near match names that are in your list.  It builds an index
  to records based on similar sounding names and addresses and 
  allows you to choose whether to delete or keep these names.
  Dupfinder is an excellent add-on to BLINC for those who are
  involved in serious mailing list maintenance.

              THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER FOR DOS

  If you have machines in your organization which are not able to
  run Windows, The Total Mailing List Manager for DOS will 
  allow you to do file maintenance on BLINC files and print
  labels and reports.  TMLM for DOS does not support some of
  the advanced features of BLINC.  Its price is $75.00.

  GET THE WORKS & SAVE $234.85.  When you register BLINC, you can
  get Zip Finder ii, Dup Finder, Toolkit, and 3,000 names from
  the category of your choice for the low price of $235.00.  That
  is a savings of $234.85 from the individual price and less than
  you'd pay for just renting the names from most list houses.
```
{% endraw %}

## AVEXTRA.TXT

{% raw %}
```
(801) 963-8721  1200-38400 Baud
```
{% endraw %}

## CATALOG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                   SOFTWARE CATALOG
                                Last Updated 03/21/93


          TITLE AND VERSION # : A DEFINITIVE LOOK AT BAR CODES  v. 3.05
          Platform(s)         : DOS provided  - applicable to all platforms
          List Price          : $79.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : programming / other
          Other Categories    : bar codes

          Now  you can incorporate bar code printing into your own computer
          programs.  This book /  disk combination has all the  details you
          need.   You can use the fully  functional programs we include, or
          use  the included routines to incorporate bar code printing right
          into your own  programs.   This is the  most extensive  reference
          available on  printing bar codes for all  of the most widely used
          formats  and we've included  programming code in  C, Quick BASIC,
          Visual BASIC, and DBASE.  These barcode symbolgies are  discussed
          in  detail with complete source  code: UPC, EAN,  EPC-E, Code 39,
          Code 25, Interleaved 2 of 5, and Post Net.  Other codes discussed
          include,  Telepen,  Code  128, Plessey,  Code  93,  Code 11,  and
          Codabar.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : BLINC - The Total Mailing List Manager for
                                Windows  V. 2.00
          Platform(s)         : Windows 3.x
          List Price          : $135.00 - $300.00 network license
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Mailing List
          Other Categories    : Contact Management

          Beyond  the  Limits  of Information  and  Networking Connections,
          there  is BLINC,  the  total mailing  list  manager for  Windows.
          BLINC integrates with INVOICE-IT so you'll no longer have to type
          in customer names with each invoice.   It also captures new names
          to its data base so you can print mailing labels, custom letters,
          post cards and envelopes.  The program generates the new post net
          bar codes so you can take advantage of maximum postal discounts. 
              

          TITLE AND VERSION # : BLINC TOOLKIT  v. 1.05
          Platform(s)         : Windows 3.x
          List Price          : $79.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Mailing list
          Other Categories    : data bases

          The standard version  of  BLINC  will handle  a limited number of
          records.   This limitation is  dependent on the  amount of memory
          you have installed in your computer.   A system with 4  megabytes
          of memory  will handle approximately  3,000 records in  each data
          file.  The  BLINC toolkit will allow  you to handle an  unlimited
          number  of records.   With  Toolkit you  can also  merge multiple
          files  and purge duplicate records.   Toolkit includes  a  report
          generator,  allowing you  to define  your own  label formats  and
          report layouts.   The BLINC Toolkit is required for  using  BLINC
          in a  multi-user mode on a network.   You may install  BLINC on a
          network  in   a  single  user  configuration,   but  no  internal
          safeguards  are in place to  protect your data  should two people
          access it simultaneously.  A real  bargain for just $79.95.   The
          features included in Toolkit would  cost you hundreds of  dollars
          with other programs.


          TITLE  AND VERSION # :  COMPREHENSIVE HOME APPRAISAL  PROGRAM  v.
          3.12
          Platform(s)         : Single User DOS, Network - Novell
          List Price          : $69.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : real estate
          Other Categories    : 

          The Comprehensive Home Appraisal Program  is designed to give you
          a  fairly close appraisal of your  home's value based on the type
          of  construction, number  of  rooms, special  features, etc.   It
          includes  a zip code modifier  table which allows  the program to
          give a highly accurate appraisal of your home's replacement cost.
          This program is used by a number of mortgage firms, and insurance
          agencies.


          TITLE AND VERSION  # : COMPS -  The Complete Realtor  Database v.
          1.04
          Platform(s)         : Windows 3.x
          List Price          : $135.00
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Real Estate
          Other Categories    : data base managers

          Now you can use BLINC to maintain information on people and COMPS
          to  maintain your listings.  These two programs integrate to give
          you  a complete Windows based system for managing the real estate
          agents most time consuming tasks.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : DISK LIBRARIAN v. 2.0
          Platform(s)         : DOS
          List Price          : $24.5
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : UTILITY
          Other Categories    : disk manager

          Disk  Librarian is designed to  allow you to  gain control of all
          your diskettes.   It catalogs the  disks, prints directories  and
          disk  labels and  allows  you to  search for  any  file name  and
          instantly  find it.   You can sort  on date, file  name, and file
          size.  Disk Librarian is command driven from the DOS prompt, with
          help files on line to make it easy to learn and use.

          TITLE AND VERSION # : DOS-ON-LINE  v. 5.0
          Platform(s)         : DOS
          List Price          : $17.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : utility
          Other Categories    : training

          DOS-on-LINE is... instant help where and when you need it for all
          the  DOS commands.  This program contains complete help files for
          all  DOS commands including batch  and advanced commands.   A DOS
          overview, dictionary, and cross reference of  functions available
          within  DOS are also at your fingertips.  DOS-ON-LINE also allows
          you to create and maintain your own help  files which then become
          a part  of your help  facility.  You  can customize the  DOS help
          files   provided   with  DOS-on-LINE   by   including  your   own
          personalized notes.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : I DREAM OF... v. 1.09
          Platform(s)         : Windows 3.x
          List Price          : $35.00
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Communications
          Other Categories    : GENIE front end

          I DREAM  of...  a  Windows based  front  end for  GEnie  and  BBS
          services  that provides  the graphical  interface we've  all been
          looking  for.   E-mail,  real time  conferences, file  upload and
          download.  DREAM requires  Windows 3.1, a 286 or  higher computer
          and a VGA monitor.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : DUP FINDER v. 1.12
          Platform(s)         : DOS, Windows 3.x, Network - Novell
          List Price          : $79.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Mailing list
          Other Categories    : data base managers
                                                                       
          Dupfinder  is designed to allow  you to find  those annoying near
          match names that are in your mailing list.  It builds an index to
          records based on similar sounding names and  addresses and allows
          you to choose whether to  delete or keep these names.   Dupfinder
          is an excellent  add-on to  BLINC for those  who are involved  in
          serious mailing list maintenance.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : INITCOMM v. 1.03
          Platform(s)         : DOS
          List Price          : $25.00
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : utility
          Other Categories    : 

          This  utility is designed to  enable Comm3 and  Comm4 for systems
          which  have those  comm  ports installed,  but  Windows does  not
          recognize.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : INVOICE-IT for Windows v. 2.00
          Platform(s)         : Windows 3.x
          List Price          : $69.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : accounting
          Other Categories    : productivity

          Invoice-It  is ideally suited for someone who needs to create and
          track  sales  invoices  without  the overhead  of  a  full  blown
          accounting  system.  The  program includes  an on-line  Window to
          Customer  and  Product  files  to  allow  you  to  quickly create
          invoices without typing addresses  and product descriptions  over
          and over again.   Use Invoice-It to keep track of  sales figures.
          The program  automatically produces reports of  sales by customer
          and  salesman,  sales  tax  reports,  and  discount  analysis  by
          salesman,  customer,  and  product  line.   Invoices  created  by
          Invoice-It  may be  imported  into your  spreadsheet or  database
          manager for futher analysis.   The program maintains its  file in
          industry standard Dbase format for
          easy access by other programs.  DOS version also available.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : LABEL-IT v. 1.0
          Platform(s)         : DOS, Network - Novell
          List Price          : $59.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : label programs
          Other Categories    : utility

          Label-It  is designed to create all kinds of mailing labels, from
          return  address  labels, to  roladex  cards,  to inventory  price
          stickers, to name badges, to place cards.  Label-It does them all
          and also prints bar codes.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : MICRO-CHESS v. 1.13
          Platform(s)         : DOS
          List Price          : $24.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : games
          Other Categories    : programming

          MICRO-CHESS   -  For  anyone   who  is  a   conneseuier  of  fine
          competition, we  present MICRO-CHESS.   It will  function equally
          well on a monochrome or color monitor, allows you to suspend play
          for later use, challenges you with up  to 9 levels of difficulty,
          and works with either the keyboard or a joystick.  Source code is
          included in  GW-BASIC for those  who are interested  in analyzing
          how a chess program is written.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : MINI-LEDGER v. 4.03
          Platform(s)         : Single User DOS, Network - Novell
          List Price          : $35.00
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : accounting
          Other Categories    : personal finances

          Single or double entry  bookkeeping system that provides  a Check
          Register, General Ledger and Income Statement.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : MINI-PAYROLL v. 4.13
          Platform(s)         : Single User DOS, Network - Novell
          List Price          : $59.95 - Network $250.00
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : accounting
          Other Categories    : payroll

          Mini  Payroll is  a great business  program and time  saver for a
          small  company.   Calculates  pay, taxes  and deductions,  prints
          paychecks,  941 forms  and  W2  forms at  the  end  of the  year.
          Comfortably handles up to 300 employees.   Automatically posts to
          Mini-ledger and the Total Business Solution.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : MY OWN FINANCIAL CONSULTANT  v. 4.01
          Platform(s)         : Single User DOS, Network - Novell
          List Price          : $39.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : accounting
          Other Categories    : financial tools

          My Own  Financial Consultant is  a collection of  commonly needed
          financial programs including amortization charts,  loan analysis,
          simple and compound  interest calculations,  days between  dates,
          and internal  rate of  return.   Req. min 640k  1 drive,  mono or
          color.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : SUP'RSORT 1.18
          Platform(s)         : DOS, Network - Novell
          List Price          : $45.00 - Network license $135.00
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : utilities
          Other Categories    : 

          As a replacement  or add-on  to the DOS  sort command,  SUP'RSORT
          will give superior performance while also allowing you to sort on
          multiple fields.  It also goes far beyond the capabilities of the
          Sort  command by  giving  you the  capability  to sort  files  of
          unlimited size  and allowing you to specify data types so that in
          a  numeric sort, 12 will not come before 3. You may also create a
          "tagfile" rather than sorting the actual file.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : TEACH ME BASIC v. 2.05
          Platform(s)         : DOS
          List Price          : $14.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : programming
          Other Categories    : training

          Now  you can learn to  use the most  popular computer programming
          language in  the world.   TEACH-ME BASIC  is one of  a series  of
          interactive computer  based training programs which  allow you to
          use  the computer  to learn  at your  own pace.   This  series of
          lessons  takes about  6 hours  to complete.   Here's  what you'll
          learn:
          The Basics of the keyboard - what all the keys are used for
          How to write a BASIC program
          Saving and retrieving data from files
          Formatting information for the printer
          Variables, what they are and how to use them
          Effective planning for proper program development
          How  to  create  and  use subroutines  to  make  development  and
          maintenance easier.

          TITLE AND VERSION # : TEACH ME TYPING v. 2.17
          Platform(s)         : DOS
          List Price          : $24.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : typing
          Other Categories    : training

          This  program is designed  to provide  basic keyboard  skills and
          drill and  practice sessions for typing.   You will begin  with a
          basic  overview  of  the  keyboard and  progress  through  finger
          practice  for each  finger  and for  both  hands.   The  computer
          generates  the text to type  and scores you  for typing speed and
          accuracy.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : THE TOTAL BUSINESS SOLUTION v. 4.13
          Platform(s)         : Single User DOS, Network - Novell
          List Price          : $750.00
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Accounting
          Other Categories    : Retail point of sale

          The premier  small business accounting  system which incorporates
          Point of  Sale, Inventory  Control, Accounts  Receivable billing,
          General Ledger, Payroll, and Accounts Payable.  It you're serious
          about managing  your  retail business,  consider  TBS.   It  also
          incorporates routines  for printing UPC codes, and  CODE 39 codes
          and  can  be used  with  a  bar code  reader  at  point of  sale.
          Invoices  created  with  INVOICE-IT   integrate  with  the  Total
          Business  Solution  to provide  you  with  a complete  accounting
          system.                  

          TITLE AND VERSION # : THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER v. 4.41
          Platform(s)         : Single User DOS, Network - Novell
          List Price          : $75.00 - Network $250.00
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Mailing list
          Other Categories    : data base manager

          Cut  your  postage  costs up  to  30%.   The  Total  Mailing List
          Manager's features include printing of mailing labels and roladex
          cards,  address file  (columnar  listings), document  merge,  and
          export to other  programs.   The program also  prints postal  bar
          codes and is CASS certified for use with Accumail, the CD-ROM zip
          code certification  program from  Group  1 Software.   Hard  disk
          drive required.  Will handle an  unlimited number of names.  Req.
          min. 640k 20 meg hard drive, mono or color. 

          TITLE AND VERSION # : THE TOTAL MAIL ORDER SOLUTION. 4.15
          Platform(s)         : DOS
          List Price          : $89.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Mailing list
          Other Categories    : accounting

          This program  incorporates the mailing  list management functions
          of  the  Total Mailing  List  Manager for  DOS  with prospecting,
          invoicing,  check register,  profit and loss  statement, accounts
          payable, and  inventory control functions ideally  suited for the
          small  mail order entrepreneur.  In addition to over 100 standard
          reports, The  Total Mail Order Solution  provides a comprehensive
          report writer and file  import and export utilities to  allow you
          to pass information to other programs.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : VISUAL BASIC X-BASE LIBRARY v. 1.05
          Platform(s)         : Windows 3.x
          List Price          : $79.95 
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : programming
          Other Categories    : Visual BASIC utilities

          Complete programming routines with source code to provide editing
          of Dbase  files from Windows /  Visual BASIC.  This  program is a
          complete  flat  file  data  base  manager   that  allows  you  to
          edit/search/browse Dbase format files within Windows and includes
          details on  accessing existing  report and posting  routines from
          within Windows to allow you to get existing xbase products ported
          to the Windows environment.   Complete source code included.   No
          runtime royalties.

          TITLE AND VERSION # : WORD PERFECT COMPANION  v. 5.1
          Platform(s)         : DOS
          List Price          : $14.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Word Perfect add ons
          Other Categories    : training


          The  WORD PERFECT COMPANION grew  out of experience  in using the
          program for 7 years  as well as teaching many novice  users about
          Word Perfect's  functions. It is extensively  cross referenced to
          the Word Perfect  manual and  organized in a  manner which  lends
          itself to quick inquiry  on how to perform a  particular function
          in  the program.  The  Word Perfect Companion  explains how these
          functions  operate with cross  references to the  sections to the
          Word  Perfect manual  which  discuss these  functions in  greater
          detail.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : Zip Finder II  V. 1.03
          Platform(s)         : Single User DOS, Network - Novell
          List Price          : $75.00
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Mailing list
          Other Categories    : data bases

          Zip  Finder ii is  a complete city  level zip code   directory of
          over 42,000 zip  codes which you  can use to validate  cities and
          zip codes  and will save you  a great deal of  time when entering
          names and  addresses because you  won't have to type the city and
          state.   With the addition  of a  CD-ROM drive and  Accumail, Zip
          Finder ii will  also add zip plus  4 codes, carrier route  codes,
          and delivery  point codes to your mailing list.  Zip Finder ii is
          designed to integrate with INVOICE - IT, BLINC, AND TMLM.


          TITLE AND VERSION # : MAILING LIST ZIP PLUS 4 ENCODING
          Platform(s)         : Single User DOS, Network - Novell
          List Price          : (PRICES BELOW)
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : mailing list
          Other Categories    : data base services


          ZIP PLUS 4 YOUR LIST AND SAVE $$$.  If you can't justify the cost
          of a CD-ROM drive, and the Accumail database, we will update your
          list for  you and  add the  zip plus 4  codes and  delivery point
          codes so you can take advantage  of maximum postal discounts.  Up
          to  2000 names for just  $45.00.  Additional  thousands to 10,000
          for $12.00  / m.  Call  for details and pricing  on larger lists.
          Strict Confidentiality assured.

          TITLE AND VERSION # : MAILING LISTS
          Platform(s)         : DOS
          List Price          : $65.00 / M
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : mailing list
          Other Categories    : data bases

          NEED MAILING LISTS  - WE'VE GOT  EM.  We currently  maintain over
          80,000  names  in house  of  computer users,  dealers,  VARS, and
          opportunity seekers.   Available  on diskette  or peel  and stick
          labels at  $65.00 per thousand.   Give us a call  to discuss your
          list needs.

          TITLE AND VERSION # : THE CAROLINA TECHNOLOGY DIRECTORY
          Platform(s)         : Not Applicable
          List Price          : $69.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Technology directory
          Other Categories    : product information

          From the  research triangel of Raleigh-Durham, NC  to the nuclear
          research  and  bio-med research  facilities  of  Augusta, GA  and
          Aiken, SC, to the  Naval and shipping centers of  Charleston, the
          fastest growing companies  in the  southease are  located in  the
          "golden triangles" of the Carolinas.  We've detailed them here in
          a comprehensive listing of technology  manufacturers, publishers,
          retail dealers, repair  facilities, VARS, OEMS,  and distributors
          in North and South Carolina.  Over 1,500 companies profiled.  Key
          technology    associations,   organizations,    and   educational
          facilities identifed.  Over 2,000 "yellow page" categories.   Use
          the  directory  to identiry  key  contacts,  find new  suppliers,
          network with  others, prospect  your market, and  comparison shop
          prices.

          TITLE AND VERSION # : WORD PERFECT CLIP ART LIBRARY # 1
          Platform(s)         : DOS / WINDOWS
          List Price          : $39.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Clip Art
          Other Categories    : Graphics Images

          Over  100 clip art images for use  with Word Perfect.  Images are
          in WPG format,  so all you do is merge  them into your documents.
          FREE  COPUPON INCLUDED  FOR TURNING  YOUR  SIGNATURE INTO  A WORD
          PERFECT GRAPHIC.

          TITLE AND VERSION # : WORD PERFECT CLIP ART LIBRARY # 2
          Platform(s)         : DOS / WINDOWS
          List Price          : $39.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Clip Art
          Other Categories    : Graphics Images

          More  clip  art  images for  use  with  Word  Perfect.   Borders,
          trumpets, splats  for announcements and newsletters.   Images are
          in WPG format, so all  you do is merge them into  your documents.
          FREE COPUPON  INCLUDED FOR  TURNING  YOUR SIGNATURE  INTO A  WORD
          PERFECT GRAPHIC.

          TITLE  AND VERSION  #  : WORD  PERFECT  CUDDLY ANIMALS  CLIP  ART
          LIBRARY
          Platform(s)         : DOS / WINDOWS
          List Price          : $39.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Clip Art
          Other Categories    : Graphics Images

          Bears  and bees,  butterflies, and  bunnies.   Over 150  clip art
          images  for use with Word Perfect.   Images are in WPG format, so
          all  you do  is merge  them into  your documents.    FREE COPUPON
          INCLUDED FOR TURNING YOUR SIGNATURE INTO A WORD PERFECT GRAPHIC.

          TITLE AND VERSION # : WORD PERFECT HOLIDAY CLIP ART LIBRARY
          Platform(s)         : DOS / WINDOWS
          List Price          : $39.95
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Clip Art
          Other Categories    : Graphics Images

          All  kinds  of  clip  art  images  for  Christmas,  Thanksgiving,
          Halloween,  Valentines Day  - You  name it.   Over  100  clip art
          images for use  with Word Perfect.  Images are  in WPG format, so
          all you  do  is merge  them into  your documents.   FREE  COPUPON
          INCLUDED FOR TURNING YOUR SIGNATURE INTO A WORD PERFECT GRAPHIC.

          TITLE AND VERSION # : WILLY WANTS IT NOW!
          Platform(s)         : DOS / WINDOWS
          List Price          : $15.00
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : E-Mail
          Other Categories    : Conversion - transfer - Internet

          The problem  - You need to  send a file via E-mail  to someone on
          Compuserve, MCI, Internet - wherever,  only the file is a ZIP  or
          program file and you can't "ATTACH" a file that way...  and snail
          mail  is just TOO slow. WILLY WANTS  IT NOW!  Willy will turn the
          file into a text file  which you can then send as a document.  On
          the other  end, Willy self  extracts and  recreates the file.   I
          developed Willy because  I needed  to send program  updates to  a
          customer in Czechoslovakia  named Willy.   He had  access to  MCI
          Mail only.

          TITLE AND VERSION # : RF Quotes
          Platform(s)         : WINDOWS
          List Price          : $500.00 - Demo/shareware available
          Product Information : (803) 593-0870
          Main Category       : Application
          Other Categories    : Contracts, bids, 

          RF  Quotes is  designed  for maintaining  bid  requests.   It  is
          ideally  suited for  companies  who  need  to bid  on  government
          contracts  and keep  account of  outstanding Requests  for Quotes
          from their supplier and compliance with delivery terms of awarded
          contracts.    RF Quotes  works  in conjunction  with  an internal
          fax/modem  board  to  automatically  send RFQ's  and  search  the
          Commerce Business Daily for key words and phrases.






















































```
{% endraw %}

## MANUAL.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                        BLINC
                                THE TOTAL MAILING LIST
                                        MANAGER
                                     FOR WINDOWS

                                    FOR THE IBM-PC
                                    & COMPATIBLES








                              EASTERN DIGITAL RESOURCES
                                    P. O. Box 1451
                              Clearwater, SC  29822-1451
                                    (803) 593-0870

          (c) 1991,  1993 all rights reserved.   No part of  this manual or
          accompanying  program  may  be  copied  without  express  written
          consent of the copyright holder.























                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-1












                                   GENERAL OVERVIEW
                                    OF THIS MANUAL

           
          GENERAL INFORMATION                SECTION 1
           
          SYSTEM SETUP                       SECTION 2

          SYSTEM MENUS AND SCREENS           SECTION 3

          STANDARD REPORT OPTIONS            SECTION 4
            
          FINDING YOUR WAY AROUND            SECTION 5

          STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES      SECTION 6

          DATA FILES                         SECTION 7

                                      APPENDICES
           
          FILE LAYOUTS                      Appendix A

          SOME FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS   Appendix B

          SYSTEM INSTALLATION               Appendix C

          SAMPLE REPORTS                    Appendix D

          TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS          Appendix E

          INDEX                             Appendix F



















                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-3












                             *** WARRANTY AGREEMENT *** 
           
               The term Vendor as used herein refers to EASTERN DIGITAL RE-
          SOURCES,  Inc. and its agents  and licensees.   The term Customer
          refers to  the original purchaser  of this  software package  for
          personal or business use. 
           
               The TOTAL MAILING LIST  MANAGER FOR WINDOWS, (BLINC) program
          contained herein  is  distributed on  an  "AS IS  BASIS"  without
          warranty except as stated  herein. Good data processing procedure
          dictates that the user test the program, run and test sample sets
          of data and run the system in parallel with the system previously
          in use  for a period of  time adequate to insure  that results of
          operation of the computer or program are satisfactory. 

                               *** SOFTWARE LICENSE ***
           
                This is  a licensing agreement between  EASTERN DIGITAL RE-
          SOURCES, Inc. referred to herein as  Vendor who owns and has  the
          right to grant  a license  in certain computer  software and  the
          Customer who desires to  acquire a license to use  such software.
          The software  that is the  subject of this agreement  is known as
          THE TOTAL MAILING  LIST MANAGER but shall be  referred to in this
          agreement as the Program. 
           
               The Vendor shall  furnish the  Customer a  computer-copiable
          program in object form.  This Program shall  be THE TOTAL MAILING
          LIST MANAGER  FOR WINDOWS (BLINC) program as  it currently exists
          for the IBM  PC and compatibles.  The Program  shall have all the
          features and  perform all the  functions described in  the Opera-
          tions  manual  which is  incorporated herein  by reference.   The
          Vendor grants  to the Customer  and the  Customer hereby  accepts
          subject to the limitations  herein specified a personal nonexclu-
          sive  nontransferable  right  and  license to  use  the  software
          contained  herein.  The Customer  may use the  Program within the
          Customer's  business ON ONE MACHINE  at no additional  cost for -
          royalties.  If the program has been licensed for network use, and
          the customer has paid  the appropriate fee, the customer  may use
          the program on an unlimited number of machines ON ONE  NETWORK at
          no  additional  cost for  royalties.   Any other  use constitutes
          fraud. 

               The  limitations of  such license  are as  follows:  (a) Any
          software program furnished by the Vendor in machine readable form
          may be  copied in whole  or in  part by customer  for use  within
          their business provided  however that only  the number of  copies
          required to serve  the Customer's  actual need for  use shall  be
          made.  The Customer agrees that the original copy of all software
          programs furnished by the  Vendor and all copies thereof  made by

                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-5












          the  customer are  and  shall remain  the  sole property  of  the
          Vendor.    (c)  The Customer  agrees  not  to  disclose, publish,
          release, transfer, or otherwise  make available any software pro-
          gram  in any  form  to any  person  including the  Customer's  or
          Vendor's employees without prior  written consent from the Vendor
          except  during  the period  such a  person  is on  the Customer's
          premises for purposes specifically  related to the Customer's use
          of  the software  program.   The Customer  also agrees  that such
          software programs are the property of and proprietary to the Ven-
          dor  and  further agrees  to protect  such  programs or  any part
          thereof from unauthorized disclosure  by its agents, employees or
          customers.  (d) The  Vendor  grants to  the  Customer a  paid  up
          license to use  the program contained  herein for their  personal
          business.   The Vendor may assign this agreement without the Cus-
          tomer's consent.  The Customer may not assign this software under
          any conditions.   The Customer shall be responsible for determin-
          ing the appropriate  use of  the program products  in its  opera-
          tions. 
           
               The Customer shall assume financial and legal responsibility
          for the  quality, reliability,  and accuracy  of the  Program and
          shall pay all  expenses associated with  any recalls or  updates.
          The Customer has the right to  modify the Program in any way con-
          sistent with  improving its usability at  the Customer's expense.
          Any modification of  the program  by the Customer  will void  all
          warranties  herein.  The Vendor  reserves the right  to refuse to
          support any package so modified.   The Customer expressly  agrees
          to include  the Vendor's copyright notice  and proprietary notice
          on all  such programs including  copies in whole  or part in  any
          form including  machine language  made by Customer  in accordance
          with this license.

               The Vendor warrants that  the Vendor has the legal  right to
          grant the Customer  the license as set out  in this agreement and
          that such license  does not infringe any  third parties' property
          or personal  rights.   The  Vendor retains  exclusive rights  for
          remarketing the Program to other customers.

               This program is copyrighted.   All copies of the  Program or
          Manual shall contain an appropriate copyright  notice in the name
          of the Vendor.   The Vendor shall enforce its  copyrights against
          infringers.  Should the  Customer in any way convey  this package
          to a third party the Vendor shall have the option  to recover the
          retail cost plus collection fees from the Customer first and then
          from the party to which this package was conveyed.

               Any  person making  unauthorized copies  will be  subject to
          prosecution under Federal Law. 


                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-6












                                 BEYOND THE LIMITS OF

                              INFORMATION AND NETWORKING

                                     CONNECTIONS

                                   THERE IS BLINC,                                            ______

                            The Total Mailing List Manager

                                     For Windows

               Quick, tell  me who is the  manager of the  local Pizza Hut.
          Or how about the Vice President for commercial development at the
          bank.   Can you tell  me the  pastor's name at  Trinity Methodist
          Church.

               Do  any  of  these  people have  interest  in  Little League
          Baseball?

               If  you live and work in the local business community, those
          kinds of questions are  asked constantly, and while  the informa-
          tion is public knowledge,  knowing the details and being  able to
          use  those contacts  is the  key to  being a  successful business
          executive.

                                   IT'S OK TO DREAM                                   ________________

               Over the years, I've  been asked over and over  for a system
          to  provide that information; something that will keep up with my
          business contacts, and prospect for new  customers.  Looking back
          now,  I realize that most  of the early  attempts at implementing
          the dream were  rather pathetic.   The systems  provided a  basic
          data base of  businesses, or a list of  people, but was virtually
          helpless  in showing and  manipulating the  relationships between
          the  two. But, Beyond  the Limits  of Information  and Networking
          Connections,  there  is BLINC,  the  exciting new  data  base and
          prospecting  system.   Now you  can know  the movers  and shakers
          behind your local market.

               If you do business  with business, you need BLINC  to effec-
          tively prospect your market.

                            MORE THAN JUST A MAILING LIST                            _____________________________

               The thing that makes  BLINC unique is that it's  a relation-
          ship manager.   When I've  been asked in  the past for  a mailing
          list manager that provides (you fill in the blanks) details about
          the folks on the list, the links a person has to the organization

                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-7












          has been made secondary to the name and address information.

          But what you really want to know is;

          Who's the president of
          Who works for
          Give me a list of outside sales reps
          I need to know the doctors who work at
          Who are the real estate agents I know

          and  are any  of  these folks  affiliated with  the groups  I'm a
          member of.

                                  THE END OF A DREAM                                  __________________

               Some dreams die  a rather harsh  death when confronted  with
          the reality of day to day business competition.  Others fade away
          in  the realization,  the realization  that what  you've actually
          dreamed of for years, has finally come to pass and  you can expe-
          rience it, sometimes beyond your wildest imaginations.

               BLINC is such a  product.  While working on  another problem
          about  a year ago, I suddenly realized that the relationships are
          the key to  an effective  contact manager.   Therefore, BLINC  is
          centered around the  relationships between people and groups.  On
          the one hand  you have  the group (a  business, charity,  church,
          civic club)  and on the other  hand members.  Some  groups have a
          one to one relationship with a member, as in the  Director of the
          Red Cross, Others have  a one to many relationship,  as in donors
          to the Health Care Foundation.   And still others have a  many to
          many relationship as in members of the local Baptist Churches.

               BLINC can  handle them all.  You can add your own details to
          the people and organizations already in the data base or you  can
          even add new members and organizations.  And since BLINC operates
          with  Microsoft WINDOWS, it's quick  and as easy  as pointing and
          pressing a button.

               BLINC  is great  for prospecting.   In  addition to  all the
          standard  stuff  like  mailing  labels, customized  letters,  and
          roladex  cards, BLINC  incorporates  the  electronic  version  of
          sticky  notes.  Any  person or group  can have a  sticky note at-
          tached  to remind you of a date  or to record an important event.
          Use it to keep track of  sales, remind you of luncheon dates, and
          call  back  on prospects.   Like  the  groups and  members files,
          sticky notes knows about relationships and that provides the  key
          difference between BLINC and assorted unrelated pieces of paper.

               The sample data file,  ADDRESS0.DAT may be deleted  when you

                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-8












          are ready to add your own people and organizations.

















































                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-9












                                   GETTING STARTED
           
               Before doing anything else with the program, you should make
          a copy of your program diskette.  The new copy will serve as your
          operating diskette,  and you can store  the original distribution
          diskette for  safe keeping.  Please note  that copies may only be
          made  for backup purposes or onto your  hard disk.  See Chapter 2
          and Appendix C of this manual  for instructions on making a  copy
          and installing the program for your system configuration. 

                                       OVERVIEW

               Welcome to BLINC,  THE TOTAL MAILING  LIST MANAGER FOR  WIN-
          DOWS.   This program incorporates  state of  the art  programming
          technique  with  the IBM-PC  computer  to  bring  you the  finest
          program of its kind available today.  At Eastern Digital Resourc-
          es  we understand  that your  mailing list  system must  suit the
          current size of your business, meet on-going needs, and allow for
          potential growth in the future. 

             BLINC  is  designed to  operate on  the  IBM compatible  AT or
          higher computer with a minimum of 2 megabytes of internal memory,
          VGA color monitor, and a printer.  The system capacity is limited
          by the amount of disk  storage you have with your machine.   Most
          small businesses can operate comfortably with an 80 megabyte hard
          disk.

              The chart below should aid in calculating your total require-
          ments: 

          program and system overhead        1 megabyte
          each name entered                       256 bytes

               BLINC  generates 12  different  reports.   When you  combine
          these with the select / sort capabilities of the program, it will
          allow you to get any kind of information you can imagine. 

          Address File Listing
          Mailing Labels
          Roladex Cards
          Envelopes









                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-10












                                   USING THE MENUS
            
               As  you work with BLINC  you will be  presented with several
          options or choices of things you may do by means of  a menu.  You
          can access  the program functions  pertaining to  that option  by
          clicking on that item with  the mouse or by pressing the  Alt key
          and the first letter of the item you want.   

               This  manual is  designed around  the procedures  you should
          follow  for running a session.   The first  section describes the
          menus and the necessary  setup procedures of installing the  pro-
          gram  and  entering  your  address records.    The  next  section
          describes the  steps to follow in running a session and the final
          section describes how to generate reports and labels.
           
              You should have  a basic understanding  of DOS and  Microsoft
          Windows before attempting to implement this program. 

































                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-11












                                  OVERVIEW OF BLINC
           
               The Program you are  using is one of several  programs deve-
          loped in Microsoft Visual BASIC ver. 2.0 with some portions coded
          in assembler to speed operations.  It offers many features previ-
          ously unavailable  on microcomputers  while providing the  novice
          user a "hands-holding" approach  to performing a task.   It's de-
          signed specifically for ease of use.   With BLINC you can  easily
          create and maintain files on your computer and print reports from
          all of your stored data. 
           
               You'll  be using BLINC in  its basic form  very quickly. The
          advanced features will  be there  for you to  discover later,  as
          your  confidence in this very powerful tool grows. If you re-read
          this manual every few  months, you'll be rewarded each  time with
          some newly discovered capabilities. 
           
               This  manual has been  completely revised to  make it easier
          for you to  understand more about using  BLINC.  You  will notice
          more details, examples and figures throughout the text.  Wherever
          a BLINC command is listed  within text it will be bold  faced and
          separated from words on either side by two spaces. 

               The step by step sections of this manual are much like a tu-
          torial to show  you exactly what  to do; what  you will see;  and
          what will happen next. It takes  all the guess work out of learn-
          ing how to use BLINC.  All of these changes in the format of this
          manual  will help you understand more about using BLINC, and also
          show you how to  use it in day to day applications.   Any sugges-
          tions which you have for improving this program or manual will be
          thoughtfully considered. 



















                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-12












                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                  S E C T I O N   1
                        G E N E R A L   I N F O R M A T I O N

                                                                            
                    MANUAL PAGE
          General Overview                       1-3
          Warranty Agreement                     1-5 
          Software License                       1-5
          Getting Started                        1-7
          Introduction                           1-9
          Overview of BLINC                      1-12
          Table of Contents                      1-13
          General Overview of BLINC              1-17
          Mailing List Features                  1-19
          Steps to Successful Implementation     1-20
          Some Do-nots                           1-20

                                  S E C T I O N   2
                           S E T U P   P R O C E D U R E S

          Setting up TMLM for Windows             2-1
          Installation Instructions               2-2
          Setting Up BLINC                        2-3
          Entering Address Information            2-4
          Print Sample Reports                    2-4

           

                                  S E C T I O N   3
                          M E N U S   A N D   S C R E E N S 


          What's It All About                     3-1
          Master Menu                             3-3
          Address File Maintenance                3-4
          Address Salutations                     3-5


                                  S E C T I O N   4 
                            R E P O R T   O P T I O N S  

          Selecting Records for Printing         4-1 
          Select All Records                     4-3 
          Select Block of Records                4-3 
          Have System Select Records             4-4
          Example of Have System Select Records  4-6 
          Use Defined Selection Format           4-7

                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-13












          Use Last Selection Format              4-8
          Sort Records Options                   4-9
            

                                  S E C T I O N   5
                        W H A T ' S   I T   A L L   A B O U T

          Finding Your Way Around                5-1
          Screen Menu Options                    5-2 
                  Next                           5-3 
                  Previous                       5-3
                  View                           5-3
                  Get                            5-3
                  Search                         5-3
                  Continue                       5-4 
                  Add                            5-4
                  Edit                           5-5
                  Delete                         5-5
            

                                  S E C T I O N   6
                            O U T L I N E  O F  D A I L Y 
                                  P R O C E D U R E S

           
          Basic Program Operating Procedures     6-1
          Notes To The System Operations         6-3
          System Initialization                  6-4
          Making Backups                         6-6
          Print Mailing Labels                   6-7
          Print Roladex Cards                    6-8
          Merging Documents with Address File    6-9


                                  S E C T I O N   7
                                 D A T A   F I L E S

          Categories Of Files                    7-1


                                 A P P E N D I C E S

          File Layouts                     Appendix A
          Some Frequently Asked Questions  Appendix B
          System Setup                     Appendix C
          Sample Reports                   Appendix D
          Technical Specifications         Appendix E
          Index                            Appendix F


                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-14












                                 GENERAL OVERVIEW OF
                                         BLINC
            
               BLINC contains powerful features, including many not normal-
          ly found in other filing programs.  Here is a brief overview of
          what you'll be learning about and using. You can use BLINC for
          all kinds of tasks: 
           
          -  Maintain mailing lists and print mailing labels and envelopes.

          -  Maintain telephone or name and address directories. 
          -  Build personnel files. 
          -  Keep customer lists. 
          -  Build and maintain files to be exported for use by other
          programs, such
             as Quattro, 1-2-3, Word Perfect, and DBase.  
          -  Import files from other programs into the BLINC format. 
          -  BLINC will allow you to sort your data into almost any se-
          quence.
          -  Sophisticated search techniques allow: 
               comparison searches 
               soundex searches 
               wildcard searches, or 
               "scan across" searches 
               on any field in the record. 
          - You can print out reports from your file, listing all or some
          of the
             fields, from all or some of the records, in many different
          sequences.
          -  Reports can be sent directly to your video screen, to your
          printer, or to
             disk for later use with your word processor or other programs.

          -  You can create new files from existing files. The
             new file can be in a different format, and can be
             a subset of the file from which it was "cloned". 
          - You can merge together two files which have
            similar definitions.  Databases can thus be created
            and maintained on separate PC's, then combined
            when desired into a "master" file.
          - Above all else, BLINC is EASY!  Many people can
            use it with no training or instructions.  Read this
            manual carefully, however, to pick up so many of
            the extra "fine points" of the program.
          - A super fast "indexed search" can be done on
            multiple fields. 
          - DOS subdirectory support. 
          - "Smart keys" (sometimes called "macros") are
            supported through use of the Windows Recorder. 

                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-17












          - A view feature to view 20 records at a time. 
          - Generic search on any fields. 
          - Imbedded search on any fields. 
          - All of these search types can be done in any
            combination. 
          - Searches can be done in all fields simultaneously. 
          - Sort on any fields. 
          - Select (for printing) on any fields with "and/or"
            comparisons. 
          - Print mailing labels and roladex cards. 
          - Print a "snapshot" while viewing a record.
          - A "flip data before printing" character is provid-
            ed for swapping last name/first name. 
          - Import and export data in many different formats.
          - Automatically uses all available RAM memory for
            super fast performance. 
          - Added a general error trapping routine.  All
            errors will have a message displayed and as
            "graceful" a recovery as possible. 
          - The Merge program has been sped up signifi-
            cantly. The Sort has been sped up by about 50%. 
            Some of the other programs also have significant
            speed improvements under certain conditions. 



























                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-18












                                        BLINC
           
               BLINC provides you with complete control over mailing lists
          and simple data bases, including membership lists, personalized
          telephone directories, and glossaries.  BLINC is basic enough to
          serve the needs of a casual user, yet powerful enough to handle a
          wide range of more complex filing tasks.  You can sort on multi-
          ple fields, and select items by your own criteria.  You can
          generate individualized mass mailings or send different letters
          to persons on the same mailing list. 
            
                                      FEATURES:                                       FEATURES:
                                        
          - Access records by multiple keys 
          - Insert new records without sorting 
          - Eliminates need to key in for each record by providing "assumed
          values" - Easily combines with text files for merged letters 

                   REPORTS:                   REPORTS:

          Address File Listing
          Salutation File Listing
          Mailing labels
          Roladex cards
          Mail-merge document
          Postcards
          Envelopes























                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-19












                          STEPS TO SUCCESSFUL IMPLEMENTATION

           
          1. Install the program for your particular system configuration
          (CHAPTER 2 & APPENDIX C). 
           
          2. PHASE 1 - Build your data files of names and addresses (2-1). 
           
          3. PHASE 2 - Perform daily procedures of entering address chang-
          es, printing reports, and making backups of your data. (6-1). 


                                     SOME DO-NOTS

           
          -  DO NOT use BLINC until you've read or browsed through this
          entire manual. 
           
          -  DO NOT forget to make regular backup copies of your file. 































                                                           
                           THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    1-20












                                       SETTING UP
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER
                                      FOR WINDOWS

       See Appendix C for additional instructions on installing the program for
       your system configuration. 

            This chapter will address itself to the procedures you should follow
       in setting up the system for your use.  It discusses each of the applica-
       tions you will use, how they interact with each other, and the steps you
       should take in creating your master and data files.  These setup proce-
       dures are covered:

       SYSTEM SETUP       ____________
       SETTING UP MAILING LISTS       ________________________

            The procedures you should follow on a daily and periodic basis once
       your system is set up are covered in Chapter 6.  Should you need any help
       in knowing what information a field should contain, refer to the discus-
       sion of the fields in Chapter 7, (DATA FILES).






























                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      2-21












                                    INSTRUCTIONS FOR
                              INSTALLING BLINC, THE TOTAL
                            MAILING LIST MANAGER FOR WINDOWS

       1.  Copy the file VBRUN200.DLL into your Windows System directory.
              Ex. From the A> prompt
              COPY VBRUN200.DLL C:\WINDOWS

       2.  INSTALL the other BLINC files into a directory of your choice.
              Ex. From the C> prompt
              MD \BLINC                   PRESS ENTER
              CD \BLINC                   PRESS ENTER
              A:BLINC2xx                  PRESS ENTER

       where xx is the release number of BLINC which you have.

       3. Go into Windows.
                Choose File - New - Program Item - OK
                Enter "BLINC"  for
                  Description
                Enter "\BLINC\BLINC.EXE"  for
                  Command Line
                Choose OK.

            Refer to Appendix C for information on setting up network and
       special company configurations. 
























                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      2-22












                                    SETTING UP BLINC

       There are three steps involved in setting up BLINC:                                                    _____

            1. Obtain all names, addresses, and salutations that you want to put
            into the system.

            2. Enter the names and addresses into the system.

            3. Print sample reports to check for errors.

       Each of these steps will be detailed in the following pages.






































                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      2-23












                              ENTERING ADDRESS INFORMATION

            After you have gathered the information that you want to enter
       (names, addresses, etc.) you are ready to enter those names into the
       system:

       Choose the BLINC icon within Windows and double click.  The system will
       then show the Address File Maintenance screen.  Click on ADD to add a new
       record.  See Chapter 7 for a discussion of the fields in this screen. 
       See Chapter 5 for a detailed explanation of the various keys and their
       uses.


                                  PRINT SAMPLE REPORTS

            See chapter 6 for a discussion on printing address listings, mailing
       labels, and Roladex cards.

        































                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      2-24












                                  WHAT'S IT ALL ABOUT
        
            Working with the system can be basically broken down into two
       functions.  One is related to entering information, inquiring on particu-
       lar entries, and the editing of those entries.  We refer to this option
       under the heading of file maintenance.  You will manipulate your files
       through various screens.  This option is highly interactive.  The other
       function is the generation of reports from the information entered. 
       These reports are generally not interactive. 
        
            The system is designed so you will be presented with several options
       by means of a MENU.  The menu bar is displayed across the top of the data
       entry screen.  You may choose any MENU option by clicking on it with the
       mouse or by pressing ALT and the first letter of the word.  Many times
       there are sub-menus behind the first menu and at times even a third or
       fourth level menu.  In cases where there needs to be a third level menu,
       the second level menu will contain options for entering information to
       the system and subsequent menus will contain reports generated from the
       information you have entered. 
        
           Working with the system in entering and editing information is
       presented by means of various screens.  These screens and the options you
       have in working with them are discussed in this chapter.  The generation
       of reports is discussed in CHAPTER 4 -  REPORT OPTIONS.  This chapter
       will give you an overview of the entire system, showing each menu and
       entry screen.  Sample reports are included in Appendix D. 
























                                                            
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      3-25












                                                                            
                           ADDRESS FILE MAINTENANCE                         
    File Edit Options Add Next Prev Search Zip Finder Sticky Notes  About   
                                                                            
                         Click Here to View BLINCS           Set BLINC      
      FILE #.....:                                                          
      Name.......:                                           Find BLINC     
      Address 1..:                                                          
      Address 2..:                                      Carr. Rte.          
      City.......:                  St :      Zip :                         
                                                                            
      Phone 1....:                                    Select Codes          
      Phone 2....:               Contact               __  Customer         
      Salutation.:                                     __  Prospect         
                                                       __  Group            
      Optional Fields                                  __  Individual       
         __________   ___________   ___________                             
         __________   ___________   ___________                             
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            

   The Address Master File should contain each of your names and addresses.  The
   default file name is ADDRESS.DAT.  If you want to store your names in a
   different file, choose FILE - NEW and enter a new file name.  See chapter 7 for
   a discussion of the fields on this screen.  From this screen you will access
   all functions for maintaining  your address file(s).  Chapter 5 explains the
   various options you have for manipulating your files.
    
   FILE
        - NEW
        - OPEN                  F5    
        - IMPORT              Ctrl I
        - SELECT / SORT
        - PRINT
        - QUICK SEARCH INDEX
        - EXIT

   FILE - NEW  Choose this option if you want to store your names in a file other
   than ADDRESS.DAT.  The system will ask you for a file name, then  clear the
   screen and allow you to enter new names.

   FILE - OPEN (F5) : Choose this option to open a data file which already exists
   in the system.

   IMPORT (Ctrl I) : This option is used to import records from other systems. 
   BLINC accepts records in several different formats.


                                                            
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    3-26












        - ASCII Comma Delimited
        - ASCII Fixed Length
        - Dbase File
        - Label Text File 1 Up
        - Label Text File 3 Up
        - Paradox File
        - Word Perfect Mail Merge File
        - Word Perfect Label File

   SELECT / SORT : Will allow you to select and sort your data files for printing
   labels and reports.  The sort option when printing a report does not actually
   sort the file... it merely swaps pointers to the records so that the report
   will be generated in sorted order.

   FILE
        - PRINT
             - SINGLE LABEL
             - ADDRESS LISTING
             - LABELS
             - ENVELOPES
             - ROLADEX CARDS
             - BLINCS
             - PRINTER SETUP
             - SNAPSHOT

   FILE - PRINT - SINGLE LABEL (Ctrl L) : This option will allow you to print
   multiple labels for the record that is currently displayed on the screen.

   FILE - PRINT -  ADDRESS FILE LISTING :  This option will give you a columnar
   listing of the names in your address file.  A sample of this report is located
   in Appendix D.  All of the standard sort/select options are available for your
   use while running this report.  See Chapter 4 - REPORT OPTIONS.

   FILE - PRINT - LABELS :

                       - Dot Matrix 1 UP
                       - Dot Matrix 2 up
                       - Dot Matrix 3 up
                       - Dot Matrix 4 up
                       - DM 3 up no barcode
                       - Cheshire labels 3 up
                       - Laser 3 up

   FILE - PRINT - LABELS :  These options will print mailing labels in various
   formats.  A sample printout of these labels are located in Appendix D.  All of
   the standard sort/select options are available for your use while running this
   report.  See Chapter 4 - REPORT OPTIONS.

   FLIE - PRINT - BLINCs : This option will give you a listing of the currently

                                                            
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    3-27












   defined BLINCs.  For more information on defining and using BLINCs, see chapter
   6.

   FILE - PRINT - PRINTER SETUP : This option will allow you to set margins and
   page length settings.  BLINC uses the default printers defined within Windows
   for other settings.

   FILE - PRINT - SNAPSHOT : This option will print the current record including
   field headings.

   FILE - QUICKSEARCH INDEX :  The system maintains an internal index to the files
   in order to find records quickly using Quick Search (F6).  If for any reason
   your index becomes damaged, this option will allow you to rebuild the index.

   FILE - EXIT :   This option will allow you to exit from the program and return
   to Windows.  You should always choose this option when you are finished with
   your processing. 
    
   EDIT
        - UNDO
        - COPY
        - Copy All

   EDIT - UNDO : This option will restore any changes made to the current record
   if you decide not to keep the changes.

   Edit - Copy : This option will copy the name and address information into the
   clipboard so you can retrieve it within another application.  You can use this
   option to merge names into letters created with your word processor.

   Edit - Copy All : This option will copy the entire record including phone
   numbers and comments fields into the clipboard so you can retrieve it within
   another application.

   OPTIONS
        - DELETE
        - CLEAR BLINCS
        - CREATE INDEX
        - USE INDEX
        - PURGE DUPS

   OPTIONS - DELETE : Will delete the current record from the file.

   OPTIONS - CLEAR BLINCS :  If this option is checked, the system will clear each
   successive BLINC once you have jumped to the new record.  If it is unchecked,
   the system adds each succesive BLINC FIND to the previous list.  This is useful
   if you're combining several smaller lists together for printing.

   Options - Purge Dups : This option will allow you to interactively review near

                                                            
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    3-28












   match records to delete duplicates.  All of the standard sort/select options
   are available while using this option.  See chapter 4 - Report Options.

   VIEW : This option will give you a columnar listing of the records in the data
   file and allow you to page forward and backwards through the file.

   ADD : Will clear the screen and position the cursor in the Name field to allow
   you to add a new record.  The File Number is automatically assigned.  If you
   are entering individuals names, they should go in as Last Name; First Name with
   a semi-colon between.

   NEXT : Will display the next record in the file.

   Prev. : Will display the previous record in the file.

   SEARCH
        - GO TO             F2
        - QUICK SEARCH      F6
        - DEFINE            Shift F3
        - FIND > SCREEN          F3
        - FIND NEXT              F4
        - FIND > BLINC

   Search - Go To : Will allow you to jump to a particular record in the file. 
   Ths system will ask you for the record number.  If you have allowed the system
   to assign the numbers and not overridden them, this is the same as the File
   Number.

   Search - Quick Search : This option will allow you to search quickly for a
   name.  The first 7 characters are significant.  You must match on at least 7
   characters.  You may type more if you'd like to make the search more specific. 
   If a name is shorter than 7 characters, such as Jones, you should enter Jones;
   with a trailing space.  That makes the seven characters.  The first name would
   then be optional.  If the name sought is not displayed, press F4 to see the
   next match.

   Search - Define : This option will display a blank entry screen.  Enter the
   piece(s) of information you want to search for, then choose Search - Find >
   Screen or Search - Find > BLINC depending on where you want the results of the
   search to go.

   Search - Find > Screen : This option will direct the output of any search which
   you have defined to the screen.  The first record which matches your search
   criteria will be displayed.  Choose Search - Find Next to continue searching
   for the next match.

   Search - Find Next : Will continue the searching of the data file for the
   currently defined criteria with the record immediately after the one currently
   displayed.  You can choose this option multiple times to search through the

                                                            
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    3-29












   entire file.

   Search - Find > BLINC : Will direct the output of a search to the BLINC queue. 
   You may then scroll through the resulting entries and click on each to view the
   record.  If you want to view multiple records, you should choose Options -
   Clear BLINCS and remove the check mark so the system will not clear once a
   record is selected.

   Zip Finder : When you choose this option, BLINC will allow you to enter a city
   and find the zip code, or to enter a zip code and find the corresponding city. 
   If you have Accumail, the optional CD-ROM disk subsystem installed, you can
   find the zip plus 4 code by also searching for the street address.  ZIP FINDER
   ii contains approximately 40,000 5 digit zip codes for quick verification of
   proper zip codes.

   STICKY NOTES : This option will allow you to add notes about a particular
   person.  These notes are free-form and a maximum of 200 per record are allowed.

   ABOUT : My shameless commercial for the program and my company.































                                                            
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    3-30












                                     USING BLINC

        Beyond the Limits of Information and Networking Connections, there is
   BLINC.  BLINC is the part of the Total Mailing List Manager that sets it apart
   from other filing programs.  You can use BLINC to maintain relationships
   between groups and the people who make up those groups.

        Every entry in your address file will represent either an individual
   person or a group.  That group may be a business, a church, a social organiza-
   tion, or even a "group" you define yourself, such as "apple pie eaters."  The
   BLINC will then allow you to identify the relationships and beyond that to
   manipulate those relationships to organize your file on the fly and find the
   information you need.

        BLINC consists of two parts.  The front end allows you to add and delete
   relationships, and the back end allows you to either interactively jump through
   the links which have been established, or to print labels and reports from the
   links.

                      AN EXAMPLE OF SETTING UP AND USING BLINCS

        Let's suppose that you want to create a list of members or your Rotary
   Club.

        First enter the name and address of the rotary club into one record.  This
   will be the primary information on the group.

        Next enter each name and address of the members that make up that group.

        Now choose SET BLINC.  You may either click on the group field, then click
   on the Rotary Club field or type in the file number of the Rotary Club.

        Now click on each member in turn in the right list box, then click on that
   member's relationship to the Rotary Club, followed by ADD BLINC.  When you are
   finished, choose EXIT.

        Now the fun begins.  With the master record for the Rotary Club displayed
   on the screen, click on FIND BLINC and the BLINC list box will give you a list
   of all members and their relationship to the club.  Clicking on a member will
   show their master record.  You may then repeat the process to see the relation-
   ship that a member has to the club, or to other groups.

        You will notice that the system clears the chosen BLINCS each time that
   you choose FIND BLINC.  You can keep this from occurring by choosing OPTIONS -
   CLEAR BLINCS and remove the check mark.  The system will then not clear the
   BLINCS, but allow you to jump quickly between the various members of the group.

        BLINC feeds to the address listing and print labels routines.  In order to
   print labels to every member of the club, all you need do is click FIND BLINC,

                                                            
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    3-31












   then click FILE - PRINT - PRINT LABELS.

        But, Beyond the Limits... Suppose later you wanted to get a notice out to
   all club secretaries regarding the upcoming yard sale.

        Choose SET BLINC, click on secretaries, leaving the member and group box
   blank, then choose FIND BLINC.  The system will then give you a list of
   secretaries, regardless of the organization.  Choose FILE - PRINT - PRINT
   LABELS, and you have your list.









































                                                            
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER  
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                    3-32












                                      CHAPTER 4
                               STANDARD REPORT OPTIONS

                                  SELECTING RECORDS
                                    FOR PRINTING

        Any time you choose a menu option that calls for printing a REPORT you
   will have several options of how you wish to have the records presented on the
   report.  These options generally fall into the following 2 categories. 
    
   1. SELECT the records out of the file that you want to appear on the report. 
    
   2. SORT the records into the sequence in which you want the report to print. 
    
        The first of these, the SELECT RECORDS OPTION is designed to permit you to
   select from the file ONLY those records that you want to appear on the report;
   you do not have to list everything in the file if you want only those records
   that meet certain criteria.   

                                                                                       SELECT RECORDS OPTIONS

       When you go to print any report you have several options of how you wish to
   select the records for printing.

                                 SELECT ALL RECORDS

        This option will print all records in the file. 

                               SELECT BLOCK OF RECORDS
    
        This option is used to select a block of records by record number.  The
   record number is the number located at the top of the screen on the prompt line
   when you enter or edit the record. (ex. Record 6 of 235 - the number 6 is the
   current record and 235 is the total number of records in the file.)  The system
   will ask for a beginning and ending record to include on the report.            
                                                                              
                                    FIND > BLINC

        Records which have been selected by the system and placed into the BLINC
   queue, can be printed without any further select / sort options being per-
   formed.

                                SORT RECORDS OPTIONS

        If you wish to have your output reports printed in a specific sequence,
   you should sort the file index. For example, to print your address file in
   alphabetical order, by last name, you would specify the NAME field. If you
   don't care about the sequence of your output report, you won't need to do a
   sort before printing your report.

                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 2         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   4-33












        A new feature for version 1.11 of BLINC is the capability to do postal
   presorts.  This is actually a multi-level sort based on sorting first all 5
   digit zips, then 3 digit SCF, then states, and finally mixed states.  This
   sortation will allow you to take maximum discounts at the post office for
   presorted first class and bulk mail.













































                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 2         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   4-34












                                    BASIC PROGRAM
                                OPERATING PROCEDURES

        There are a number of procedures that are part of the operation of the
   program.  Before you can do these steps you must have installed the program for
   your hardware configuration (APPENDIX C), and built your master files. (CHAPTER
   2).  This chapter will address itself to the steps to operating the program. 
    
        There are several types of transactions that are part of your normal daily
   procedure.  They are all specified in this chapter which tells you exactly how
   to enter each type of transaction.  The checklist on the next page gives you an
   overview of what should be done each day.  Other procedures, such as the
   generation of reports are performed as needed, while others are performed
   monthly, quarterly, or annually.  You may find that certain recommendations do
   not "fit" for your particular operation.  If you change the procedures however,
   be careful to think through the ramifications.  Throughout these procedures we
   have assumed that you are using the complete BLINC program.  If you are using
   only selected options your procedures may differ.
































                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   6-35












   OPERATION TO BE PERFORMED                             SEE PAGE / NOTES
   =========================================================================
                                  DAILY OPERATIONS

   1.  System Initialization                                      6-4

                                 PERIODIC OPERATIONS
                             (TO BE PERFORMED AS NEEDED)

   Mailing List Management

   1. Create a New Data File
   1. Address File Listing                 
   2. Salutation File Listing
   3. Print Mailing Labels                                        6-7
   4. Print Roladex Cards                                         6-8
   5. Print Envelopes
   5. Create Mail Merge Document                                  6-9
   6. How to Make Backups                                                6-6































                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   6-36












                                 NOTES TO THE SYSTEM
                                     OPERATIONS

   1. The abbreviation CD stands for current date.  You should enter the current
   date in the format MM/DD/YY.  If the month or day is less than 10 you should
   enter a leading 0 as in

   01/01/91   for February 6, 1992.

   2. The abbreviation BR stands for beginning record number.  Enter the record
   number of the first item in this batch of entries.  This is the number that ap-
   peared on the prompt line AFTER you added the first transaction in this batch;
   ie.

   RECORD XX OF NN

   You should enter the value for XX then press ENTER.

   3. The abbreviation ER stands for ending record number.  Enter the record
   number of the last item in this batch of entries.  This is the number that ap-
   peared on the prompt line AFTER you added the last transaction in this batch;
   ie.

   RECORD XX OF NN

   You should enter the value for XX then press ENTER.  If the last record to
   print corresponds to the last item in your file you may merely press ENTER and
   the system will assume the last record.






















                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   6-37












                                System Initialization
                                 Stand Alone System

        You should always turn on your peripheral items (printer, modem, etc.
   first, then your computer.  The system will go through a startup process which
   will identify any problems that it may have.  The particular sequence will
   depend on your computer system.  If prompted, you should enter the system date
   in the format MM/DD/YY.  If the month or day is less than 10 you should enter a
   leading zero. Ex. February 8, 1992 should be entered as:

   02/08/92     Press ENTER

   You should always make a habit of using the slashes '/' rather than entering
   dashes '-' for dates.  The system treats the two differently when sorting and
   you will have problems later if you use dashes.

   If the system stops at the DOS prompt, i.e.

   C>

   you should type:

   CD\WINDOWS      press ENTER
   WIN                    press ENTER

   Once Windows has loaded, double click on the BLINC icon to start the program.
























                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   6-38












                               Create a New Data File

        This is the procedure for creating a new data file to hold your names. 
   The default file name is ADDRESS.DAT.  When you first start the program, names
   will be put in this file.  For a new file, choose:

   FILE - NEW - FILENAME* - OK

        *A FILENAME may be up to 8 characters long, characters or numbers. 
   Special characters and spaces are not allowed.








































                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   6-39












                                 How to Make Backups

   After you have completed your posting of each day's transactions, you should
   make a habit of backing up all entries made.  Refer to your DOS reference
   manual if you have questions regarding the procedure. 

   From the DOS prompt:

   BACKUP C:\BLINC\*.* A:        press ENTER.

   The computer will tell you when to put in a diskette and when additional
   diskettes are needed.  Be sure the diskettes you put in have been formatted; if
   not you must FORMAT DISKETTES before starting the backup procedure. 
    
   Be sure all diskettes are inserted into the computer with the label side up and
   the cut out end going in first. 
    
   These daily backup diskettes should be stored off site to assure that you have
   a backup of your data files. 































                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   6-40












                                Print Mailing Labels

        The Print Mailing Labels option will allow you to print mailing labels
   from the data files that you have entered.  All of the standard sort/select
   options are available to you while using this function.  See Chapter 4 - REPORT
   OPTIONS. This system supports 3 1/2 inch labels 1 up, 2 up, 3 up and 4 up as
   well as the three across labels for laser printers. 

   1. Select the records to include in the print job.  See chapter 4 for a full
   discussion of selecting records.  To select all records in the file, choose
   FILE - SELECT/SORT - SELECT ALL RECORDS - OK

   2. You may choose to sort the labels on zip code or on name.  If so, when the
   SELECT/SORT Records Menu appears, click on the sort field before choosing OK.

   3. Choose FILE - PRINT - LABELS

   Click on the format of the labels you want to print.  The following questions
   will appear on different formats, depending on their need.  We will discuss
   them all together, but not all will be asked each time.  For the default
   values,  press ENTER.

   Printer output directed to:  {LPT1:}  The current version of the program
   bypasses PRINT MANAGER within Windows, because of bugs with PRINT MANAGER in
   handling graphics bar codes properly.  You can specify to send the output of
   your printing to a disk file by entering the file name and path on this line. 
   Other possible entries are COMx: for a specific serial port or SCRN: for the
   video screen.

   Printer Setup String: {no default setting}  You may use this line to send
   special settings to your printer to set printer fonts or line spacing.  Consult
   your printer manual for specifics.  The ESC code (character code 27), if
   required should be entered as <ESC>.  All other codes should be entered as
   their ASCII equivalent.  Codes which are not available directly from the
   keyboard may be typed by holding down the ALT key and typing its 3 digit
   decimal number on the keypad.

   Ex.  Many printers used <ESC>  (027/015) for condensed type.  You would enter
   this code by typing <ESC> and then hold down the ALT key and type 015 on the
   keypad.  The screen would then display the 'splat.'

   Vertical Spacing between labels: {1}  This option is for the number of lines to
   skip between labels.  For standard 1" high labels, the answer is '1'.  If you
   are using larger labels, or printing more than 6 lines per inch,  you will need
   to experiment to get the proper number.

   Horizontal spacing between labels: {5} This option only applies to labels
   printed 2 up, 3 up, and 4 up.  If your labels are non-standard, you can
   experiment with this number to get wider or narrower spacing.

                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   6-41












    
   Print Alignment Mask? : If you answer 'Y' the system will print xxx across
   three labels to allow you to check the alignment.  When you have a proper
   alignment on the labels, answer 'N' and the labels will be printed.

   Include PostNet bar codes? : If you answer YES, the system will include the
   PostNet bar code above the address.











































                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   6-42












                                   Print Envelopes

        The Print Envelopes option will allow you to print envelopes from the data
   files that you have entered.  All of the standard sort/select options are
   available to you while using this function.  See Chapter 4 - REPORT OPTIONS. 

   1. Select the records to include in the print job.  See chapter 4 for a full
   discussion of selecting records.  To select all records in the file, choose
   FILE - SELECT/SORT - SELECT ALL RECORDS - OK

   2. You may choose to sort the envelopes on zip code or on name.  If so, when
   the SELECT/SORT Records Menu appears, click on the sort field before choosing
   OK.

   3. Choose FILE - PRINT - ENVELOPES

   Click on the format of the envelopes you want to print.  The following ques-
   tions will appear on different formats, depending on their need.  We will
   discuss them all together, but not all will be asked each time.  For the
   default values,  press ENTER.

   Printer output directed to:  {LPT1:}  The current version of the program
   bypasses PRINT MANAGER within Windows, because of bugs with PRINT MANAGER in
   handling graphics bar codes properly.  You can specify to send the output of
   your printing to a disk file by entering the file name and path on this line. 
   Other possible entries are COMx: for a specific serial port or SCRN: for the
   video screen.

   Printer Setup String: {no default setting}  You may use this line to send
   special settings to your printer to set printer fonts or line spacing.  Consult
   your printer manual for specifics.  The ESC code (character code 27), if
   required should be entered as <ESC>.  All other codes should be entered as
   their ASCII equivalent.  Codes which are not available directly from the
   keyboard may be typed by holding down the ALT key and typing its 3 digit
   decimal number on the keypad.

   Ex.  Many printers used <ESC>  (027/015) for condensed type.  You would enter
   this code by typing <ESC> and then hold down the ALT key and type 015 on the
   keypad.  The screen would then display the 'splat.'

   Vertical Spacing between labels: {1}  This option is for the number of lines to
   skip between labels.  For standard 1" high labels, the answer is '1'.  If you
   are using larger labels, or printing more than 6 lines per inch,  you will need
   to experiment to get the proper number.

   Single or Continuous : {S}  If you choose single, the system will pause between
   printing each envelope and wait for you to press ENTER before continuing.

   Portrait or Landscape : {P}  Landscape printing is only available for certain

                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   6-43












   printers.  Check your printer manual.

   Include Return Address : {Y}  If you answer 'Y' the system will print the
   return address from the company setup file.

   Banner Line 1 & 2 : These lines are optional and will print across the envelope
   below the return address.

   TAB offset for Return Address  {3} : Enter the number of spaces from the left
   margin for the return address.

   TAB offset for Address {40}  Enter the number of spaces from the left margin
   for the Address.

   Vertical Spacing Between Return Address and Address   {3} : The number of
   vertical spaces after the banner line before printing the address.

   Vertical Spacing Between Address and Bar Code  {3} : The number of vertical
   spaces after the address before printing the bar code.

   Vertical Spacing Between Bar Code and End of Envelope {3} : The number of
   vertical lines to feed after printing the bar code.




























                                                           
                            THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                            Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                   6-44












                                  CATEGORIES OF FILES 
         
            There are two general categories of files used in the computer to do
       all of your work; they are: 
        
        
              1. Master Files 
              2. Data Files
        
            The information contained in master files usually does not change
       very often, but when it does change, it is CRITICALLY IMPORTANT that the
       master file affected be updated accurately and immediately.  Never run
       any type of report until you know that your master file updates have been
       properly completed.  Your reports will be worthless if your master files
       are wrong. 
        
            Master file information is changed instantly; just as soon as you
       exit a record after editing the file is changed.  No posting cycle is
       required to update the master file - no audit trail is left for you
       except your  original input document.  BE VERY CAREFUL THAT YOUR DATA HAS
       BEEN ENTERED CORRECTLY BEFORE EXITING THE EDIT OPTION WHEN UPDATING THE
       MASTER FILES - THERE IS NO VALIDATION, AND NO AUDIT TRAIL LEFT.

            There are 3 master files which are a part of the system and are
       required for proper operation.  These files are:

       SALUTE00.DAT
       ZIPCODES.DAT
       TITLES00.DAT





















                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1          March 20, 1993  
                                                                                                      7-45












                                ADDRESS FILE MAINTENANCE
                                 EXPLANATION OF FIELDS

       FILE NUMBER - This field is the key field for your address file.  It is
       automatically assigned by the system, giving each record a unique number
       as it is created.  You may then use this number in conjunction with F2 to
       quickly retrieve a record.  It is also used by the BLINC routines to
       maintain links between records in your file.

       NAME - If you are dealing with an individual you should give consider-
       ation as to how to enter the name.  If a name is entered as James E.
       Smith and you ask for an alphabetical listing of the customers the names
       will be out of order.  If on the other hand Smith; James E. is entered
       the names will be sorted properly on your printout.  For printing purpos-
       es the name will be reversed on the mailing label  so that Smith; James
       E. will become James E. Smith.  NOTE THE SEMICOLON IS USED AS A SEPARA-
       TOR.  If the name is James E. Smith, Jr.  it should be entered as  Smith
       Jr.; James E.  Should you find a printout addressing a  customer in-
       correctly  you can call up that record and  edit the customer name field.

       CONTACT - This field should contain the name and  salutation that you
       wish to use in addressing this  person.  It is used for addressing
       letters to a  particular person's attention.  If no name is entered  here
       the letter will print 'Dear Sir' for the  salutation.

       ADDRESS 1 & ADDRESS 2 - Two lines are allowed for the  address.  Recent
       Post Office guidelines suggest that the second line should contain the
       Post Office Box if required.






















                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1          March 20, 1993  
                                                                                                      7-46












       CITY - STATE - ZIP CODE - A maximum of 15 characters  are allowed for the
       city.  Post Office abbreviations  are recommended for the state.  The Zip
       Code field  allows 10 characters for the zip plus four codes.

       CARRIER ROUTE - This field is for carrier route if you are doing bulk
       mailings.

       PHONE - Twelve characters are allowed for the phone  number including the
       area code.  The format is xxx-xxx-xxxx.

       SALUTATION - This field should contain the KEY # from the Salutation
       File.  This file is used in the Mailing List Management sub-system to
       address people as Mr., Mrs., etc. 

       The standard salutation codes are:

           0. no salutation (also default for blank field)
           1. Mr.
           2. Mr. & Mrs.
           3. Miss
           4. Dr.
           5. Dr. & Mrs.
           6. Drs.
           7. Sgt.
           8. Sgt & Mrs.


       COMMENTS - The comments field is for your own use and a  maximum of 40
       characters are allowed.  Any information  about the person you wish to
       maintain may be typed in this space and later searched like any other
       field.

       SELECT CODES - The select codes are the selection criteria that you
       choose to sort the records by.  They are labeled Customer, Prospect,
       Member and Group.  You may use them to key the records as you'd like.















                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1          March 20, 1993  
                                                                                                      7-47












        
                           DATA FILE LAYOUT FOR ADDRESS
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       Ln.               Description              Length             Type
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          1   FILE #                                  7               0
          2   NAME                                   35               0
          3   ADDRESSEE                              30               0
          4   ADDRESS 1                              30               0
          5   ADDRESS 2                              30               0
          6   CITY                                   15               0
          7   STATE                                   2               0
          8   ZIP CODE                               10               0
          9   PHONE 1                                12               0
         10   PHONE 2                                12               0
         11   CARRIER ROUTE                           5               0
         12   SALUTATION                              2               0
         13   FLAG STRING                             4               0
         14   USER FIELD 1                           10               0
         15   USER FIELD 2                           10               0
         16   USER FIELD 3                           10               0
         17   USER FIELD 4                           10               0
         18   USER FIELD 5                           10               0
         19   USER FIELD 6                           11               0

                       
                               DATA FILE LAYOUT FOR TITLES00
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       Ln.               Description              Length             Type
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          1   TITLE KEY                              10               0
          2   TITLE DESCRIPTION                      35               0


                               DATA FILE LAYOUT FOR ZIPCODES
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       Ln.               Description              Length             Type
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          1   ZIP CODE                                9               0
          2   ZIP STATE                               2               0
          3   ZIP STATE                              15               0


                               DATA FILE LAYOUT FOR TITLES00
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       Ln.               Description              Length             Type
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          1   MEMBER                                  4               0
          2   TITLE                                   4               0

                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      A-48












          3   GROUP                                   4               0

















































                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      A-49












                                       APPENDIX B
                               FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
        
        "Do you have any other programs that you're distributing?"
        
       ANSWER: Yes, We take great pride in our ability to provide high quality,
       high function, easy to use programs for a popular price.
         
        "Will it help if I buy more RAM memory for my PC?"

       ANSWER: Yes.  BLINC makes use of all available memory for performance
       purposes.  You should see a sizeable speed improvement particularly on
       large files. Your sorts should also run faster.
         
        "In what language was BLINC written?"

       ANSWER: It was written in "Microsoft VISUAL BASIC", then compiled with
       the Microsoft VISUAL BASIC Compiler version 1.0. There are also some
       assembler language subroutines, which were created using the IBM Assem-
       bler.  There are over 25,000 lines of source code in this product.  We
       use WORD PERFECT to maintain our source code and documentation files. 
       Final documentation is produced directly from WORD PERFECT to assure that
       the manual you receive reflects the most recent revisions.
         
        "What computers run BLINC?"

       ANSWER: We've worked very hard to make BLINC run on as many different
       "MS-DOS" computers as possible. The minimum configuration is an 80286
       system with 2 megabytes of memory, VGA color monitor, and 2 megabytes of
       memory.  Microsoft Windows v. 3.0 or higher is also required.
         
        "Can I obtain the source code for the program?"
        
       ANSWER: The source code is available from Eastern Digital Resources for
       your own non-commercial use.  Contact your local dealer for pricing.

                                      Malfunctions

       Errors due to operation mistakes (operators) or to environmental condi-
       tions (hardware or system software) do occur on occasion in spite of the
       best error trapping techniques a program can include.  TMLWIN helps you
       to quickly determine if an error is due to a defect/failure or the result
       of misoperation.

       Disk Drive Not Ready or File Not Found xxxx

       This error is from the program which encountered an error due to a disk
       drive failure or mis-operation.  Note what the program is trying to do,
       read a Data File, Save a Data File, etc.  and also which disk drive is

                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      G-50












       involved.  Check that the drive itself is operational and then make sure
       the diskette has the requested program.  Press ENTER to retry.

       Using the 'ESC' for exit will usually escape the error condition but will
       not correct the error.  Continuing with the program following such an
       error, without correcting the problem will usually be un-successful.  As
       an assist in locating the difficulty the error number, xxxx, will help by
       pointing to the
       problem area.

       Each of the above errors will occur during the initializing, or the
       startup, phase.  The most common problem is the file(s) are not on the
       currently designated default drive where the program expect to find them. 
       (the default drive is the one designated from DOS by the prompt;
       A>,B>,etc).  

       Printer Not Ready.  On some printers, during multiple copy printing, this
       error will occasionally be displayed and then clear itself.  This is the
       result of the program attempting to print the next label and the printer
       is still busy.  Although an annoyance this does no harm.  A printer
       buffer, always a good accessory, will prevent this.  Device Fault is a
       DOS error which usually relates to the printer.  Although the program
       interrogates the printer ready status prior to each print command to
       avoid such a fault, it is possible that mis-operation could void such
       checks.  Such a diagnostic message will require a RE-BOOT.

























                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      G-51













       REQUIRED FIELD:   A value must be provided in this field  The field has
       been designated as "required " by establishing a validity check.  You
       must post a value to this field during an editing or a data entry ses-
       sion.  See Chapter 1 for information on validity checks.

       Access denied... You will see messages beginning with "Access denied" if
       you are working on a network and are trying to access an object or
       directory that you do not have sufficient rights to use.  Typically, the
       problem is not at the program level, but at the network level.  For
       example, you'll get this type of message if you try to make a read-only
       directory your working directory.  See your network administrator if you
       cannot determine the cause of this problem.

       Drive not ready.

       BLINC is attempting to read or write from a disk you have specified, but
       cannot do so because the drive door is open, a disk is not inserted in
       the drive, or the drive does not exist.

       Insufficient disk space for export.

       TMLM has determined that it cannot Export the data in a table because
       there is not enough room on the disk or directory you have designated to
       hold the exported version of the data.  Change your working directory or
       floppy disk, or delete some files before continuing.

       Insufficient disk space to insert new records.

       TMLM has determined that there is not enough room on the designated disk
       to complete an Insert query.  Change your working directory or floppy
       disk, or delete some files before continuing.

       Insufficient memory for...

       BLINC has determined that it does not have enough memory available to
       carry out the operation you have specified.  Before continuing, end the
       current operation and try to increase available memory by clearing the
       workspace.  You can also increase memory by removing any RAM-resident
       programs you may have installed on your computer.










                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      G-52












                                       APPENDIX C
                                INSTALLATION PROCEDURES
        
            Before doing anything else with the program, you should  make a copy
       of your program diskettes. The new copy will  serve as your operating
       diskette, and you can store the original distribution diskette for safe-
       keeping.  Please note that copies may only be made for backup purposes or
       onto your hard disk.


                          INSTALLATION FOR A HARD DISK SYSTEM

        
       1. If you don't see the normal DOS prompt on your screen, then "boot-up"
       the DOS operating system in the usual manner. If you don't yet know how
       to do this, please return to your DOS manual for further reading or
       consult your dealer. 
        
       2. Log onto the "A" drive. To  do this, type: 
        
       A:           and press the ENTER key. 
        
       3. Copy the programs to the hard disk. Do this by typing: 
        
       INSTALL      press ENTER
        
       4. Store your program distribution diskette in a safe place. 
       At this point, you may need to install the program into Windows Type:

       C:                     press ENTER
       CD\WINDOWS             press ENTER
       WIN                    press ENTER

       Choose File - New - Program Item - OK

       Enter BLINC.EXE for the Program Name

       Enter C:\BLINC  for the Working Directory.












                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      C-53












                              INSTALLATION CONSIDERATIONS
                                   FOR NOVELL NETWORKS

            If you have the single user edition of BLINC, you may still install
       the program on a Novell network.  You should take care however that no
       two users are using the same data files simultaneously to avoid corrup-
       tion of your data.  

       Each user should be given shared read/write access to the following
       directories:

       DOS
       BLINC
       DATA
       USERNAME - where USERNAME is the name of the user.

       The system should have the drives mapped as:

       C: - USERNAME
       D: - BLINC
       E: - DATA


       If the user has a local hard disk drive installed, you can use that drive
       as drive C: rather than mapping a drive to the network.

       Each user must have a unique drive designated as drive C: to alleviate
       collisions and corruption of data files.

       For the INSTALL procedure only, you should map drive C: as the network
       SYS:\BLINC or specify the drive designation and path after the INSTALL as
       in:

       INSTALL D:\BLINC
















                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      C-54












                        INSTALLING BLINC FOR MULTIPLE COMPANIES


       The recommended way to set up multiple companies on the system, is to map
       DRIVE C: uniquely for each company, drive E: as a unique data area for
       each company and keep drive D: set to WINDOWS.  Each user should then
       login under the company name.  If more than one user is going to work in
       any given company at one time, each user must have a unique drive C:










































                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                                      C-55













   ######################### 
   ######################### 
   ######################### 
     
                                                   SAMPLE MAILING
   LABELS FORMAT  
     
   ######################### 
   ######################### 
   ######################### 
     
     
     
   ######################### 
   ######################### 
   ######################### 
     
     
     
   BANK OF SARDIS                 
   P.O. BOX                 
   SARDIS, GA.  30456     
     
     
     
   BANK OF WAYNESBORO             
                            
   P.O. BOX 637             
   WAYNESBORO, GA.  30830     
     
     
   WENDELL BAREFIELD 
   RT.2 BOX 105             
   WAYNESBORO, GA.  30830     
     
     
     
   JAMES BAREFIELD 
   RT.1 BOX 213             
   SARDIS, GA.  30456     
     
     
     
   CARL BARGERON 
   RT.1 BOX 97              
   SARDIS, GA.  30456     
     
     

                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                              C-56












     
   FRED BEAUMAN 
                            
   P.O. BOX 112             
   SARDIS, GA.  30456     













































                                                            
                             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                             Rev. 1         March 20, 1993   
                                                                                              C-57












                               APPENDIX E 
                       TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS 
    
       While BLINC has been designed with care and rigorously tested
   in actual business use, you may have some requirements which the
   program cannot meet.  The information in this appendix is designed
   to give a programmer the links he needs to make necessary changes
   to the system.  It is expected that you will have a working
   knowledge of the disk operating system, file I/O, and a background
   in programming using a language such as BASIC before attempting to
   modify the program.  We can provide telephone assistance as needed
   but please understand that you will be billed at our going rate
   for assistance provided in this area. 
    
                          MOVING RECORDS INTO
                          ANOTHER APPLICATION 
    
    
   All data records within BLINC are stored as ASCII files in a
   random access format.  If you wish to access the record you may
   open the file with a record length of 255.  In order to import the
   records into LOTUS or other spreadsheet program you should only
   need to read the file using the spreadsheet's import feature for
   sequential files.


























                                                    
                     THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                     Rev. 1        March 20, 1993    
                                                                                      E-58












                       WRITING YOUR OWN PROGRAMS 

    
        This information is provided for programmers who wish to use
   TMLWIN files with their own programs.
    
   Here's a sample BASIC program to show you how to process the Index
   and Data records in your file. 
    

   1 CLEAR 20000:DIM A$(92),R(92),C(92),F(92),D$(92),F$(92),FL(92),
      D2$(92),F2$(92),F2(92),D3$(92),F3$(92),F3(92),D4$(92),F4$(92),
      F4(92),IN$(10) 
   6 DEF FN SS$(AN$)=LEFT$(AN$+"  ",INSTR(AN$+"  ","  ")-1): REM This
   function strips trailing blanks from a string
   7 OPEN"I",1,"COMPANY0.CFG":A$=INPUT$(149,1):PR$=FN
   SS$(INPUT$(12,1)):DN$=FN SS$(INPUT$(12,1)):IND$=FN
   SS$(INPUT$(12,1)):FG=VAL(INPUT$(12,1)):BG=VAL(INPUT$(12,1)):
   BC=VAL(INPUT$(12,1)):CLOSE 1:EXT$=".DAT":REM Get the company setup
   information as to drive assignments etc.
   11 DEF FN H(SE$)=ASC(MID$(SE$,1,1))*97+13+ASC(MID$(SE$,2,1))*113+
   ASC(MID$(SE$,3,1))*73+ASC(MID$(SE$,4,1))*32+ASC(MID$(SE$,5,1))*3+
   ASC(MID$(SE$,6,1))*2+ASC(MID$(SE$,7,1))*7:REM This function
   creates a hash code of the key field's data
   100 REM TO OPEN A FILE GOSUB 2100
   110 REM TO OPEN AN INDEX GOSUB 2700
   120 REM TO RETRIEVE NEXT ITEM IN THE SELECTED RECORDS GOSUB 2600
   130 REM TO SEARCH FOR A RECORD GOSUB 1200
   1200 IN$=LEFT$(DF$,10)+".I"+IN$(L1):GOSUB 2200:IN$=SE$:GOSUB 1600:
   S1$=IN$:J=LI:S1$=S1$+"       ":S1$=LEFT$(S1$,7):S2$=MKI$(FN
   H(S1$)):FOR X3=X1 TO 32:GET BN+1,X3 
   1202 I=INSTR(BE,H$,S2$):BE=BE+2:IF I>0 THEN R2=((X3-1)*125)+((I+1-
   )/2):
   GET BN,R2:ON BN GOTO 1250,1260,1270,1280 
   1203 BE=1:NEXT:G=0:RETURN 
   1204 IF BE<256 THEN 1202 
   1205 FOR X=RN+1 TO LR:GET 1,X:IN$=D$(LI):GOSUB 1600:G=INSTR(IN$,S-
   E$):IF G>0 THEN RETURN ELSE IF INKEY$=CHR$(27)THEN RN=1:GOTO 3060
   ELSE NEXT:RETURN 
   1210 IF LOF(1)=0 THEN RETURN ELSE GET 1,RN:FOR LI=1 TO NU:
   A$(LI)=D$(F(LI)):LOCATE R(LI),C(LI):PRINT FN CL$;:LOCATE
   R(LI),C(LI) :PRINT A$(LI);:NEXT:RETURN 
   1250 IN$=LEFT$(D$(ID),LEN(SE$)):GOSUB 1600:IF IN$=SE$ THEN G=5:BE-
   =I+2: RETURN ELSE BE=I+2:GOTO 1202 
   1260 IF D2$(I2)=SE$ THEN G=5:BE=I+2:RETURN ELSE GOTO 1202 
   1270 STOP 
   1280 IN$=LEFT$(D4$(I2),LEN(SE$)):GOSUB 1600:IF IN$=SE$ THEN
   G=5:BE=I+2: RETURN 
   1290 GOTO 1202 

                                                    
                     THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                     Rev. 1        March 20, 1993    
                                                                                      E-59












   2100 DF$=D1$+".IDX":FL=0:OPEN"I",1,DF$:INPUT #1,Z1:FOR X=1 TO
   Z1:INPUT #1,F$(X):FL(X)=VAL(MID$(F$(X),30,3)):FL=FL+FL(X):NEXT:C-
   LOSE 1:IF D$<>"" THEN D1$=D$:LOCATE 1,46:PRINT D1$ 
   2105 LOCATE 21,1:DF$=DN$+D1$+EXT$:OPEN"R",1,DF$,FL
   :LR=INT(LOF(1)/FL):X1=0 
   2110 FOR LI=1 TO Z1:FIELD 1,(X1)AS DU$,FL(LI)AS D$(LI):X1=X1+FL(L-
   I):NEXT 
   2113 FIELD 1,FL AS A$ 
   2115 IF LR=0 THEN RETURN ELSE RN=LR:GET 1,RN:IF A$=STRING$(FL,32)
   THEN LR=LR-1:GOTO 2115 
   2116 RETURN 
   2120 CLOSE 2:DF$=D2$+".IDX":F2=0:OPEN"I",2,DF$:INPUT #2,Z2:FOR X=1
   TO Z2:LINE INPUT #2,F2$(X):F2(X)=VAL(MID$(F2$(X),30,2)):F2=F2+F2(-
   X):NEXT
   :CLOSE 2:IF D$<>""THEN D2$=D$ 
   2125 DF$=DN$+D2$+EXT$:OPEN"R",2,DF$,F2:L2=INT(LOF(2)/F2):X1=0:FOR
   LI=1 TO Z2:FIELD 2,(X1)AS DU$,F2(LI)AS D2$(LI):X1=X1+F2(LI):NEXT:-
   X1=0 
   2127 IF L2=0 THEN RETURN ELSE R2=L2:GET 2,R2:IF LEFT$(D2$(1),4)="  
    "OR ASC(D2$(1))=0 THEN L2=L2-1:GOTO 2127 
   2128 RETURN 
   2200 IF IN$=IG$ THEN RETURN ELSE CLOSE BN+1:IG$=LEFT$(DF$,10)+"-
   .I"+
   IN$(L1):OPEN"R",BN+1,IG$,250:FIELD BN+1,250 AS H$:RETURN 
    
                    THE FILES ON YOUR PROGRAM DISK 
    
        This information is provided so that you'll know the function
   of  each file and program in the BLINC system.  BLINC consistently
   names each particular kind  of file for quick verification  of its
   purpose  in the system.  The last  three characters of a file will
   identify its use.

   BAS - VISUAL BASIC program source code
   EXE - the compiled version of the BASIC code
   BAT - a batch file, used by the system to execute DOS funtions
   BIN - an assembly language module which is called by
         the program
   COM - an assembly language module which can also be
         executed directly from DOS
   CFG - a data file which is used for storing configura-
         tion para- meters and reports
   DAT - your data which you have entered
   Ixx - an index to a file with the numbers 'xx' identi-
         fying the field in the file which is indexed
    




                                                    
                     THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER 
                     Rev. 1        March 20, 1993    
                                                                                      E-60






       *** A ***        address 1  7-5       address 3  7-5
       addressee 7-5
        
       *** B *** 
        
       backup 4-2
       Backup Menu 3-5 
        
       *** C *** 

       caps lock 5-8
       change system date 3-5
       comments 7-6
       constant 4-6, 4-8 
       CTRL left arrow 5-8
       CTRL right arrow 5-8
       Cursor Control Movements 5-8 
            up arrow 5-8 
            down arrow 5-8 
            right arrow 5-8 
            left arrow 5-8 
            CTRL left arrow 5-8 
            CTRL right arrow 5-8 
            Enter 5-8
            Ins 5-8 5-9
            del 5-7
            Home 5-7 
            End 5-7  
       CONTINUE 5-4  
        
       *** D *** 

       define selection format 4-7 
       DELete 5-9
       DELETE 5-5 
       dos prompt 4-1 
       down arrow 5-7 

                                               
             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER    
            Rev. 1            March 20, 1993    
                                                                          G-61









               *** E ***                EDIT 5-5
       end 5-7  
       Enter 5-8
       ENTRY SCREENS 
            Have system select records 5-17 
            Sorting records 5-20
        
       *** F *** 
        
       field # 4-4, 4-7
        
       *** G *** 
        
       GET 5-2
        
       *** H *** 
        
       HARDCOPY 5-9 
       have system select records 5-13 5-16, 4-4 
       home 5-7 
        
       *** I *** 
        
       index files 9-9 
       INSert 5-8 5-9
       installation C-1 

       *** K *** 
        
       *** L *** 
        
       left arrow 5-8
        
       *** M *** 
        
       Mailing List Manager 3-24
       Mailing List Menu 3-24

                                               
             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER    
            Rev. 1            March 20, 1993    
                                                                          G-62









       mailing labels 7-1        Management Functions Menu 3-4       master account maintenance 7-7       master files 7-1
       Master Menu 3-3  
       MENUS 
            Master Menu 3-3 
            Select Records Menu 5-14 
            
        *** N *** 
        
       name 7-4
       NEXT 5-2 
       next line 4-8, 
       num lock 5-9
        
       *** O *** 
        
       overview 1-7
        
       *** P *** 
        
       Pg Dn 5-7
       Pg Up 5-7
       phone 1 7-10
       phone 3 7-10
       PREVIOUS 5-2
       print 6-32
       Printing a Report 4-1 
            select all records 4-3 
            select block of records 4-3
            have system select records 4-4
            use defined selection format 4-7 

       *** Q ***

       *** R *** 
        
       related to 4-7
       RELATIONSHIPS 

                                               
             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER    
            Rev. 1            March 20, 1993    
                                                                          G-63









       EQ 4-4, 4-7        GT 4-4, 4-7        LT 4-4, 4-7        GE 4-4, 4-7 
       LE 4-4, 4-7 
       NE 4-4, 4-7 
       CO 4-4, 4-7 
       CI 4-4, 4-7 
       RL 4-4, 4-7 
       REPORTS 
            print address file 6-13
       RETURN 5-5
       right arrow 5-7 
       roladex cards 3-5
        
       *** S *** 
        
       salutation 3-24
       salutation file 3-27 
       Screen Menu Options 
            See NEXT record 5-2 
            See PREVIOUS record 5-2 
            GET record to screen 5-2 
            SEARCH file for record 5-3 
            CONTINUE search for next match 5-4 
            ADD record to file 5-4
            DELETE record from file 5-5 
            EDIT record on screen 5-5
            TOTAL records in file 5-5 
            RETURN to Master Menu 5-5 
            Print HARDCOPY of screen 5-9 
            using the ESCape key 5-9 
            Update 5-6 
       scroll lock 5-9
       SEARCH 5-3
       select all records 4-3 
       select block of records 4-3 
       select codes 3-26
       Select Records Menu 4-2 
       setup   Chapter 2

                                               
             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER    
            Rev. 1            March 20, 1993    
                                                                          G-64









       software license 1-3        sorting records 4-9        startup C-1        Status of the Special Keys 5-8
       summary of Cursor Control Movements 5-8
       System Setup    Appendix C & Chapter 2
        
       *** T *** 
        
       TOTAL 5-5
        
       *** U *** 
        
       up arrow 5-8
       use defined selection format 4-7
       use last selection format 4-8

       *** V ***

       *** W ***

       Warranty Agreement 1-3 

       *** Y ***

       *** Z *** 
        














                                               
             THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER    
            Rev. 1            March 20, 1993    
                                                                          G-65









```
{% endraw %}

## PROMO.TXT

{% raw %}
```
     BEYOND THE LIMITS OF INFORMATION AND NETWORKING CONNECTIONS
                            there is BLINC,
              THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER FOR WINDOWS

Beyond the  Limits of Information  and Networking Connections, there is 
BLINC, The Total Mailing List Manager for Windows.  If  you do  business 
with business,  you need  BLINC to effectively prospect your market.
The  thing  that makes  BLINC  unique  is  that it's  a relationship 
manager.  
  Who's the president of
  Who works for
  Give me a list of outside sales reps
  I need to know the doctors who work at
  Who are the real estate agents I know

  and are any  of these folks affiliated  with the groups I'm a member of.

BLINC is great for prospecting.  In addition to all the standard stuff 
like mailing labels, customized letters, and  roladex cards,  BLINC 
incorporates  the electronic version  of sticky notes.  Any person or 
group can have a  sticky note attached to  remind you of  a date or to
record an important  event.   Use it to  keep track  of sales, remind you 
of  luncheon dates, and call  back on prospects.   

                         NEW FOR VERSION 2.04

Addition of the Delivery Point bar code routine so you can take advantage
of maximum postal discounts.

Conversion of the standard file format to Dbase.

```
{% endraw %}

## RELEASE.TXT

{% raw %}
```
		   THE TOTAL MAILING LIST MANAGER FOR WINDOWS
				 RELEASE SUMMARY

Release #      Date         Summary of Changes
1.00         09/07/91     General release of version 1.00
1.01         09/09/91     Added File select form
1.02         09/11/91     Added select of records on all fields
1.03         09/12/91     First release of manual
			  Added header line for record #
1.04         09/15/91     Fixed bad record number on opening new file.
			  Fixed problem with searching on Select Codes
			  Fixed problem with clicking Select Code and
			  no other changes, change not being saved
1.05         12/27/91     Added BLINC search support
1.06         01/15/92     Added Zip Finder ii support
1.07         02/27/92     Added Sticky note support
1.08         04/02/92     bug fixes and general clean-up
1.09         05/15/92     more bug fixes
1.10         06/21/92     Added support for printing of other label
			  formats and laser printers
1.11         08/26/92     Added support for import of other formats
			  added Invoicing screen for Registration
2.04         02/20/92     First shareware release of release 2.0
			  Changed primary file format to Dbase
			  removed all non-Windows modules
```
{% endraw %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
        T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This may well be the greatest collection of software ever compiled.

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM is our premier collection of the entire
PC-SIG library.  Every shareware program we have is on one disc; over
900 megabytes of software you can have immediate access to.

Easy to use, all you have to do is insert the disc and type 'INSTALL' at
the DOS prompt.  We've included all the tools you need for fast easy
access to the programs and their descriptions.

The WordCruncher text retrieval software allows you to quickly access
the description for any program you want.  All the programs are indexed
by title, filename, PC-SIG disk number, and every word within the
program description.  There couldn't be an easier way to find just the
right program.  All the programs are logically divided into thirteen
major categories with subcategories, making it easier to find just the
right software.

All of the programs have been scanned for viruses.  There are also three
online virus utilities that can be run from the CD-ROM which will scan,
screen and clean viruses.  Not only does this save hard disk space, but
also gives every user added security from viruses.

Whether you're interested in Accounting or Windows, there's a shareware
program for you on the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

Winner of the Optical Publishing Assn's Best Consumer Product Award.

Shareware for every imaginable need: Accounting Chemistry Educational
Engineering Games Hypertext Networks Programming Spreadsheets Utilities
Word Processing

Additional BBS file descriptions are available from PC-SIG so that the
CD-ROM can be set up quickly on a bulletin board.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 530K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
a graphics monitor (Hercules/EGA/VGA/SVGA).  A mouse is optional.





T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


                      The PC-SIG Games CD-ROM
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.


To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $14.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $34.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $7.00  ______

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

GAMES CD Amazing Disk - Amazing Price!                 $25.00  ______

*** PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM 12th Edition  ***         $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other shareware CD-ROM just           $59.00  ______

                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD call (800)245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3740

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    BLINC    ZIP    137956   5-26-93   9:42a
    SIGORDER TXT      3090   3-10-93   3:22p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3090   3-10-93   3:22p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2335   2-10-93   8:50a
    SHAREMAG TXT      1837   1-21-92   6:11a
    CDROM    TXT      4874   3-18-93   1:28p
    GO-STRT  DAT       538   5-26-93  10:11a
            9 file(s)     209120 bytes
                          108544 bytes free
