---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #4106)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/4000-4999/DISK4106/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #4106"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M,

                1 2 t h E d i t i o n



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM, winner of the Optical Publishing
Association's Best Consumer Product Award, has added a hypermedia
interface that makes it easy to find and download any type of program
you could want. The WordCruncher text retrieval program has also been
implemented to assist you insearching this vast collection.

This CD-ROM contains over 3700 fully functional shareware programs, each
with a detailed review. The 12th Edition has added over 300 new programs
and over 500 updates since the release of the 11th Edition. The
collection is always kept current and now contains over 70 megabytes of
Windows 3.0 and 3.1 applications, fonts, icons, games and wallpaper
files.

The range of software is phenomenal! There are huge assortments of
games, everything from adventure games with full SVGA and SoundBlaster
support to favorites like Klondike, Chess and Othello. Spreadsheets,
databases, wordprocessors and graphics programs are instantly available
and there are literally hundreds of unique and specialized programs that
will save you time and money. This amazing collection will help you get
a handle on all your business and home accounting and also teach your
children about zoology.

Each of the more than 3700 programs has a one-line description for quick
reference, Just pick one of the 13 software categories and a subcategory
to begin browsing for a program that interests you. You might choose the
Games Category, where you can pick from 12 subcatgories including
Adventure, Arcade, Cards and more. A mouse click (or keyboard stroke) on
the program title takes you to a detailed description of the program.
you can immediately download the software to your hard or floppy drive,
and in many cases view a screen shot.

You can find any program in the collection quickly and easily by using
the search button. When you are in a program category just type in the
title of the program and you will be taken to the description of that
program. The popular WordCruncher text retrieval program has been added
to allow searching every description for any word within that
description, not just in the title or keywords chosen by someone who
thinks differently than you do. The WordCruncher is ideal for finding
programs which perform a specific function, just try searching for
"split", "math" or "subtract". Or switch to the Disks section where you
will find an alphabetical list of all the programs which can be searched
by program title or disk number.

Everyone has their favorite programs and we're no exception. Our 44
favorite programs can be run immediately. No downloading is necessary,
all you do is click on the word "RUN" in the program description and
you'll be working or playing with top notch software right on the CD.

The power of hypermedia will allow you to try out more software than you
ever thought possible. We are sure that you will find a multitude of
programs to your liking on the P-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT PS/2 or compatible with 640K, DOS 3.3 or
higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM player. We
recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.










T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


T h e  P C - S I G   G a m e s    C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.

T h e   P C - S I G   W o r l d   o f   G a m e s   C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The new PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM contains over 550 of the best
shareware games, including 53 educational games for children and 57
Windows games. 430 of them can be played directly from the CD without
using your hard drive space.

This edition employs the award-winning HyperReader interface, allowing
easy searching and playing by using a mouse or the keyboard.

This CD is the first in a six-volume PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware
series. Each volume will include the programs from a section of the
PC-SIG collection and also the programs and text from the current issue
of Shareware Magazine. This CD contains the entire text from the
May/June issue of Shareware Magazine, featuring hardware reviews of
the Tandy Sensation and the Media Vision Pro 16 Multimedia System.
Software reviews included cover 58 new shareware releases, security,
educational, CD audio and PIM's. 159 of the programs mentioned in the
magazine are included and can be downloaded using the HyperReader
interface.

There are also 89 programs which were updated since the last issue of
Shareware Magazine, helping those of you who have purchased the 12th
edition of the PC-SIG Library keep on top of the everchanging world
of shareware.

As well, a description of every program in the PC-SIG Library can be
searched with the WordCruncher text retrieval program. This Games CD
continues the ten year PC-SIG tradition of providing quality programs
and information to help you find the best program for your purpose.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT/PS/2 or compatible computer with 640K,
DOS 3.3 or higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM
player. We recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

For Technical information: Call 408-730-9291 and ask for Technical
Support

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## COMDEMO.DOC

{% raw %}
```


        Comdemo - Serial Communications Demo.

        Comdemo is a full duplex terminal program. It recognizes most
        of the more common ANSI control sequence such as cursor
        location and screen attributes. You can use Comdemo to
        dial up a BBS or communicate with RS-232 equipment.

        Comdemo will send Ctrl characters and keys such as the
        escape key verbatim. Some Alt characters are reserved for
        commands. They are as follows:


         Alt A - Toggle between ANSI and TTY terminal.
         Alt B - Next baud rate.
         Alt C - Next COM port.
         Alt D - Hayes dial command (sends the string "ATDT")
         Alt E - Toggle echo mode.
         Alt G - Hayes hang up command (sends the string "~~~+++~~~ATH0\r\n").
         Alt H - Next handshake scheme.
         Alt I - Initialize a Hayes modem (sends the string "ATZ").
         Alt N - Append a line feed to a carriage return toggle.
         Alt M - Toggle mode (8-1-N, 7-1-E).
         Alt X - Quit Comdemo.
         Pg Up - Upload a file (Xmodem)
         Pg Dn - Download a file (Xmodem)


        To dial up a BBS, set the COM port (Alt C), baud rate (Alt B),
        word length (Alt W), number of stop bits (Alt S) and parity
        (Alt P). If the BBS send ANSI escape codes make sure ANSI is
        selected (Alt A). In some cases you will need to set LF on
        (Alt N) as well. Now you can initialize your modem and dial.
        Press Alt I to initialize the modem and then press Alt D followed
        by the phone number and the enter key. If the initialize and dial
        strings in Comdemo are not appropriate for your modem, you
        can enter them by hand.

        Comdemo will compile/link under Borland C/C++ and Microsoft C/C++.
        If you are using Microsoft C/C++, make sure you link in the
        graphics library.
```
{% endraw %}

## GAMDEMO.DOC

{% raw %}
```


        Gamdemo - Game Port Demo



        Gamdemo demonstrates the performance of the Gport game port
        library and BIOS game port support (INT 15/84). It shows the
        current joystick position(s) and button status. In addition,
        some of the function keys access some of the calibration and
        centering features. The function keys are defined as follows:



        F1 - Calibrate the X axis on joystick A.
        F3 - Calibrate the X axis on joystick B.

             To calibrate the X axis on a joystick,  hold the joystick
             all the way to the right and press F1 (for joystick A) or
             F3 (for joystick B). Then hold the joystick all the way to
             the left and press F1/F3. Gport will now use this new
             information to more accurately calibrate the joystick's X
             axis.


        F2 - Calibrate the Y axis on joystick A.
        F4 - Calibrate the Y axis on joystick B.

             To calibrate the Y axis on a joystick,  hold the joystick
             all the way up and press F2 (for joystick A) or F4. (for
             joystick B)Then hold the joystick all the way down and press
             F2/F4. Gport will now use this new information to more
             accurately  calibrate the joystick's Y axis.


        F5 - Toggle centering mode.

             There are two centering modes offered in Gport. The
             first, and the default, is REAL mode. In real mode Gport
             will consider the location of where the joystick comes
             to rest to be center. The second centering mode is MEAN
             mode. In MEAN mode Gport considers the mean between the
             two extremes of the joystick axes, acquired from the
             calibration (F1 to F4), to be center. Note that until the
             joystick is  calibrated, there is little difference between
             the two modes.


        F6 - Gport/BIOS toggle

             This option allows you to compare the Gport functions to
             BIOS joystick support.  Notice in particular that Gport
             is much faster resulting in smoother transitions and
             higher resolution.  NOTE: PC, PCjr and PC XT with BIOS
             dated before 8 Nov 82 do not have BIOS joystick support.





                                        1



        F7 - Reinitialize

             This option as far as Gport is concerned is essentially
             the same as terminating the program and restarting it.
             All calibration data is deleted and the joystick is
             reinitialized. You may want to exercise this option if,
             for instance, the joystick was not at rest when the
             program was initially invoked or if you had only one
             joystick and wanted to switch from joystick A to B.



        The source code for Gamdemo is provided for your inspection.
        It is, however, compiled with function that are exclusive to
        the Borland/Turbo C graphics library. If you have a similar
        graphics library, you could replace the Borland graphics
        library functions. The functions are as follows:


            bar               - draws a filled bar
            circle            - draws circle
            cleardevice       - clears the graphics screen
            closegraph        - closes the graphics mode
            detectgraph       - detects the graphics driver
            fillellipse       - draws and fills an ellipse
            getcolor          - gets the current drawing color
            getfillsettings   - gets the current fill settings
            getimage          - gets a stored image
            getmaxx           - gets the max number of pixels in x
            getmaxy           - gets the max number of pixels in x
            imagesize         - determines an image's storage size
            initgraph         - initializes graphics mode
            line              - draws a line
            linerel           - draws a relative line
            moveto            - move to
            outtextxy         - puts text at x,y
            putimage          - puts an image into storage
            registerbgidriver - registers a linked graphics driver
            registerbgifont   - registers a linked font
            setbkcolor        - sets the background color
            setcolor          - sets the drawing color
            setfillstyle      - sets the fill style
            settextstyle      - sets the text style
            textheight        - determines the hight of a text string
            textwidth         - determines the width of a text string

```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## README.TXT

{% raw %}
```

Bri Productions Product Evaluation Disk 


Bri Productions
P.O. Box 7121
Fremont, CA 94537-7121
Tel: 510-794-0616


1) The files on this disk have been compressed using PKZIP to save disk 
   space. If you have trouble de-compressing these files, please to not 
   hesitate to contact Bri Productions for assistance.

2) Each of the three products have been zipped into their respective 
   ZIP file. Each product also contains a file named FILE.LST with 
   a list of the files for the product, and a short description of
   each file.

3) An excerpt has been made from the accompanying information sheet
   and placed in the file SWDIST.TXT. This is to facilitate the
   transfer of the information, without having to re-type it.


File list:

---------------------------------------------------------------------

CPORT2   ZIP     84159 04-09-93  10:16p

   Cport version 2.0 - Serial Communications Library for C/C++

      README .!!! 
      COMDEMO.C
      COMDEMO.DOC
      CPORT  .DOC
      COMDEMO.EXE
      CPORT  .H
      XMODEM .H
      CPORT  .HPP
      CPORTS .LIB
      FILE   .LST



---------------------------------------------------------------------

GPORT1   ZIP     49526 04-09-93  10:36p

   Gport version 1.0 - Game Port/Joystick Library for C

      FILE   .LST
      GAMDEMO.C
      GAMDEMO.DOC
      GAMDEMO.EXE
      GPORT  .DOC
      GPORT  .H
      GPORT  .HST
      GPORTS .LIB

---------------------------------------------------------------------

SEFX1    ZIP     28714 04-09-93  10:38p

   Sefx version 1.0 - PC Speaker Sound Effects Library for C

      FILE   .LST
      SEFX   .DOC
      SEFX   .H
      SEFXS  .LIB
      SNDDEMO.C
      SNDDEMO.DOC
      SNDDEMO.EXE

---------------------------------------------------------------------

```
{% endraw %}

## SNDDEMO.DOC

{% raw %}
```



      Snddemo - Sound Effects Demo.

      Snddemo is an interactive function evaluation/development
      program. You can use Snddemo to evaluate the functions in
      the Sefx library or as a development tool for finding the
      parameters that create the desired sound effect. The later
      use can save time by avoiding the recompile trial and error
      method.

      The parameters to the sound generation functions can be changed
      on the fly in the editing fields. Notice that any sound in the
      sound queue continues to play while you edit the fields. The
      parameters, if any, to the control functions are cycled/toggled
      when the function is invoked.

      All the functions are invoked by F-keys. When the sound
      generation functions are invoked, the current parameters are
      used even if it is currently being edited.

      The source code for Snddemo is provided for your inspection.
      It is, however, compiled with function that are exclusive to
      the Borland/Turbo C run time library. Specifically those prototyped
      in conio.h. If you have similar functions in your C compiler's run
      time library or you have an extended windows library, you could easily
      replace them. There are not that many. They are as follows:



                gotoxy()         - Locates the cursor.
                _setcursortype() - Sets the cursor type
                clrscr()         - Clears the window.
                textattr()       - Sets the text attributes.
                cprintf()        - similar to printf()
                cputs()          - similar to puts()
                putch()          - puts a single char
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $19.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $39.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $5.00  ______
($5.00 is refundable with your first order)

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

The PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM                       $19.95  ______ 

The PC-SIG World of Windows CD-ROM                     $19.95  ______

The PC-SIG 12th Edition Library CD-ROM                 $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other CD-ROM just!                    $59.00  ______

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware on CD-ROM
(1 year subscription)                                  $99.00  ______


                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD: Call (800) 245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

## SWDIST.TXT

{% raw %}
```

      Product: Cport version 2.0.

  Description: Cport is a general purpose serial communications library for 
               C/C++ and IBM compatible computers.

     Features: Support for COM 1 to COM 4 and custom configurations.
               Simultaneous serial communications.
               Baud rates from 50 to 115200 baud.
               Built-in hardware and software handshaking.
               Both transmitter and receiver are interrupt-driven.
               Adjustable transmit and receive queues.
               Queues as large as 65534 bytes each.
               Transmit and receive queues are handled internally.
               Supports the NS16550 UART automatically.
               Developed in assembly language for optimum speed and size.

        Price: $65.00(U.S.)

-----                                                                    -----

      Product: Gport version 1.0.

  Description: Gport is a game port/joystick library for C and IBM compatible
               computers.

     Features: Timer driven button monitor.
               Optional joystick calibration.
               Choice of REAL or MEAN centering modes.
               Yields higher resolution on faster computers.
               Constant axis scaling to approximately ±1000.
               Written in assembly language for optimum speed and size.

        Price: $25.00(U.S.)

-----                                                                    -----

      Product: Sefx version 1.0.

  Description: Sefx is a PC speaker sound effects library for C and IBM compatible computers.

     Features: Generates sound simultaneously to other operations.
               Produces frequencies from 19 to 20,000+ hertz.
               Time bases of 54.9, 27.5, 13.7 and 6.9 milliseconds.
               Changes frequency up to 145 time per second.
               Adjustable sound queue as large as 65532 bytes.
               Sound queue is handled internally.
               Written in assembly language for optimum speed and size.

        Price: $25.00(U.S.)

-----                                                                    -----

Brian C. Gaskell
Bri Productions
P.O. Box 7121
Fremont, CA 94537
(510) 794-0616


```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #4106

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    README   TXT      1855   5-02-93   8:49p
    SWDIST   TXT      2287   5-02-93   8:43p
    CPORT2   ZIP     84159   4-09-93  10:16p
    GPORT1   ZIP     49526   4-09-93  10:36p
    SEFX1    ZIP     28714   4-09-93  10:38p
    GO-STRT  DAT       541   6-01-93  11:07a
    SIGORDER TXT      3334   8-31-93  12:45p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2329   6-01-93   2:31p
    SHAREMAG TXT      1831   6-01-93   2:32p
    CDROM    TXT      8196   6-01-93   3:26p
           13 file(s)     241508 bytes
                           72704 bytes free
