---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #2950)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/2000-2999/DISK2950/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #2950"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
        T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This may well be the greatest collection of software ever compiled.

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM is our premier collection of the entire
PC-SIG library.  Every shareware program we have is on one disc; over
700 megabytes of software you can have immediate access to.

Easy to use, all you have to do is insert the disc and type 'GO' at the
DOS prompt.  We've included all the tools you need for fast easy access
to the programs and their descriptions.

The WordCruncher text retrieval software allows you to quickly access
the description for any program you want.  All the programs are indexed
by title, filename, PC-SIG disk number, and every word within the
program description.  There couldn't be an easier way to find just the
right program.

The Narc utility, newly instituted with the tenth edition, allows you to
look directly at all the compressed program files on the CD without
having to download the program to your hard disk.  So if you want to
look at the programmer's notes or on-line documentation before using
valuable hard disk space, you can.

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware is included on the disk, and a
printed copy of the book is included so you can peruse the available
programs from the comfort of your favorite chair.  All the programs are
logically divided into one-hundred twenty categories making it easier to
find just the right software.

Whether you're interested in Accounting or Windows, there's a shareware
program for you on the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

Winner of the Optical Publishing Assn's Best Consumer Product Award.

Shareware for every imaginable need: Accounting Chemistry Educational
Engineering Games Hypertext Networks Programming Spreadsheets Utilities
Word Processing

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.





T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed

by title, filename, PC-SIG disk number, and every word in the program
description.  A new utility, Narc, is implemented so you can look at the
program files and the author's on-line documentation without having to
first copy the program to your hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and
Narc, you can quickly find the program you want and review it to be
sure, without ever having to run it from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.

```
{% endraw %}

## FILE2950.TXT

{% raw %}
```
Disk No: 2950
Disk Title: Lemmings: 1991 Xmas Edition
PC-SIG Version: S1.0

Program Title: Lemmings: 1991 Xmas Edition
Author Version: 1991
Author Registration: None.
Special Requirements: 512K RAM and CGA/EGA/VGA. Mouse and joystick
                      supported.

Lemmings are little rodents known for their collective consciousness.
They travel in dense groups and seem to move as a mass rather than as
individuals. They're infamous for following each other off cliffs or
into the sea to their death. In the video world, Lemmings have much the
same personality. They aren't predispositioned to do anything but
follow. They will do whatever they're told, and follow that until you
tell them to do something else. Since you're in charge of where the
lemmings go and what they do, it's up to you to save the lemmings from
falling to their death.

As "hoards of roaming rodents" are released from a chute at the top of
the screen, you use the mouse to tag them for a certain job as they
scurry around the screen. You can make them walkers, climbers, diggers,
or builders. You can even have one lemming stop the lemmings behind him
from continuing in that direction. The way you control each lemming
determines if the other lemmings will continue to move toward safety.

LEMMINGS: 1991 XMAS EDITION has been released for all the world to try.
It's a full working version of a Lemmings-style commercial game. There
are a couple of modes borrowed from other popular versions of the
Lemmings games available at software retailers, but this one is unique
with its refreshing winter wonderland setting and pretty lights with all
the lemmings in Santa hats.

PC-SIG
1030D East Duane Avenue
Sunnyvale  Ca. 94086
(408) 730-9291
(c) Copyright 1989 PC-SIG, Inc.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 2700 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A. call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer in
your country.
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #2950

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    XMASLEMM ZIP    230233   3-10-92   1:27p
    CDROM    TXT      3693   1-21-92   6:10a
    SHAREMAG TXT      1837   1-21-92   6:11a
    PCSIG    TXT      2335   1-21-92   6:09a
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    GO-FORM  DAT      2401   1-20-92  10:24a
    GO-STRT  DAT       544   3-10-92  12:28p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     23528   3-15-90   1:10a
    FILE2950 TXT      1791   3-10-92  12:45p
            9 file(s)     292384 bytes
                           26624 bytes free
