---
layout: page
title: "PC-SIG Diskette Library (Disk #3655)"
permalink: /software/pcx86/sw/misc/pcsig/3000-3999/DISK3655/
machines:
  - id: ibm5170
    type: pcx86
    config: /machines/pcx86/ibm/5170/cga/1024kb/rev3/machine.xml
    diskettes: /machines/pcx86/diskettes.json,/disks/pcsigdisks/pcx86/diskettes.json
    autoGen: true
    autoMount:
      B: "PC-SIG Library Disk #3655"
    autoType: $date\r$time\rB:\rDIR\r
---

{% include machine.html id="ibm5170" %}
{% comment %}samples_begin{% endcomment %}

## CDROM.TXT

{% raw %}
```
T h e  P C - S I G  L i b r a r y  o n  C D - R O M,

                1 2 t h E d i t i o n



++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM, winner of the Optical Publishing
Association's Best Consumer Product Award, has added a hypermedia
interface that makes it easy to find and download any type of program
you could want. The WordCruncher text retrieval program has also been
implemented to assist you insearching this vast collection.

This CD-ROM contains over 3700 fully functional shareware programs, each
with a detailed review. The 12th Edition has added over 300 new programs
and over 500 updates since the release of the 11th Edition. The
collection is always kept current and now contains over 70 megabytes of
Windows 3.0 and 3.1 applications, fonts, icons, games and wallpaper
files.

The range of software is phenomenal! There are huge assortments of
games, everything from adventure games with full SVGA and SoundBlaster
support to favorites like Klondike, Chess and Othello. Spreadsheets,
databases, wordprocessors and graphics programs are instantly available
and there are literally hundreds of unique and specialized programs that
will save you time and money. This amazing collection will help you get
a handle on all your business and home accounting and also teach your
children about zoology.

Each of the more than 3700 programs has a one-line description for quick
reference, Just pick one of the 13 software categories and a subcategory
to begin browsing for a program that interests you. You might choose the
Games Category, where you can pick from 12 subcatgories including
Adventure, Arcade, Cards and more. A mouse click (or keyboard stroke) on
the program title takes you to a detailed description of the program.
you can immediately download the software to your hard or floppy drive,
and in many cases view a screen shot.

You can find any program in the collection quickly and easily by using
the search button. When you are in a program category just type in the
title of the program and you will be taken to the description of that
program. The popular WordCruncher text retrieval program has been added
to allow searching every description for any word within that
description, not just in the title or keywords chosen by someone who
thinks differently than you do. The WordCruncher is ideal for finding
programs which perform a specific function, just try searching for
"split", "math" or "subtract". Or switch to the Disks section where you
will find an alphabetical list of all the programs which can be searched
by program title or disk number.

Everyone has their favorite programs and we're no exception. Our 44
favorite programs can be run immediately. No downloading is necessary,
all you do is click on the word "RUN" in the program description and
you'll be working or playing with top notch software right on the CD.

The power of hypermedia will allow you to try out more software than you
ever thought possible. We are sure that you will find a multitude of
programs to your liking on the P-SIG Library on CD-ROM.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT PS/2 or compatible with 640K, DOS 3.3 or
higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM player. We
recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.










T h e E s s e n t i a l H o m e & B u s i n e s s C o l l e c t i o n
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

"Never before has such a valuable collection of popular shareware been
compiled on one CD-ROM that everyone can afford." Dr. File Finder a.k.a.
Michael Callahan

Finally, 368 of the most useful, popular, important shareware programs
have been put together on one CD. No matter what your need, it's on The
Essential Home & Business Collection.  Everything from Administration to
Windows software is here.

The Essential CD incorporates the WordCruncher text retrieval system.
Every program on the disc is indexed by title, filename, PC-SIG disk
number, and every word in the program description.  A new utility, Narc,
is implemented so you can look at the program files and the author's
on-line documentation without having to first copy the program to your
hard disk.  By using WordCruncher and Narc, you can quickly find the
program you want and review it to be sure, without ever having to run it
from your hard disk.

If you've got a CD-ROM player at home and want to get more use of it and
your computer, or if you're trying to avoid purchasing another Nintendo
cartridge, or if you just enjoy looking at new software, you need The
Essential Home & Business Collection.

System Requirements:

IBM PC/XT/AT PS/2 or compatible with 384K memory DOS 3.1 or higher and
Microsoft MS-DOS CD ROM extensions.


T h e  P C - S I G   G a m e s    C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Now you can play a game a day fo over a year.  This CD-ROM is jammed
with over 380 shareware games of all types, designed to appeal to the
new generation of CD-ROM users out for fun.  The CD incorporates a
hypermedia interface and allows 250 of the games to be played directly
from the CD-ROM.

The hottest games in shareware are on this disk, including the
action/arcade games "Jill of the Jungle" and "Wolfenstein 3D," which
rival or surpass commercial PC and Nintendo for use of animation,
SoundBlaster audio, and VGA graphics.  There are also games designed to
teach children mathematics, spelling and even ecology.  All these games
for less than a dime each!

Over 250 of the games can be played directly from the CD without copying
them to a floppy or a hard drive.  Being able to run from the CD means
that users can explore games without using up valuable hard disk space
or spending time downloading and deleting files.  The hypermedia
interface makes it easy to browse the titles, read a one line
description or full review, and copy or start a game by clicking the
mouse or using the keyboard.

T h e   P C - S I G   W o r l d   o f   G a m e s   C D - R O M
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The new PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM contains over 550 of the best
shareware games, including 53 educational games for children and 57
Windows games. 430 of them can be played directly from the CD without
using your hard drive space.

This edition employs the award-winning HyperReader interface, allowing
easy searching and playing by using a mouse or the keyboard.

This CD is the first in a six-volume PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware
series. Each volume will include the programs from a section of the
PC-SIG collection and also the programs and text from the current issue
of Shareware Magazine. This CD contains the entire text from the
May/June issue of Shareware Magazine, featuring hardware reviews of
the Tandy Sensation and the Media Vision Pro 16 Multimedia System.
Software reviews included cover 58 new shareware releases, security,
educational, CD audio and PIM's. 159 of the programs mentioned in the
magazine are included and can be downloaded using the HyperReader
interface.

There are also 89 programs which were updated since the last issue of
Shareware Magazine, helping those of you who have purchased the 12th
edition of the PC-SIG Library keep on top of the everchanging world
of shareware.

As well, a description of every program in the PC-SIG Library can be
searched with the WordCruncher text retrieval program. This Games CD
continues the ten year PC-SIG tradition of providing quality programs
and information to help you find the best program for your purpose.

System Requirements: IBM PC/AT/PS/2 or compatible computer with 640K,
DOS 3.3 or higher, Microsoft MS-DOS CD-ROM Extensions and a CD-ROM
player. We recommend a 386 with a VGA monitor.



To Order in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask for Customer Service.

For Technical information: Call 408-730-9291 and ask for Technical
Support

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## FEATURES.DOC

{% raw %}
```


     This text file explains the features of MAXimize
     ================================================

     MAXimize is an Application Interface Manager (AIM) that will
     dramatically improve your productivity by allowing you to easily
     design, build and control the interface to your applications.    You
     will find it easy and fun to build your own interface to the
     applications on your computer.  The result is an intuitive interface
     designed specifically for you.  This will increase your speed and
     reduce errors, thus dramatically improving your productivity both when
     using and changing that interface.

     An AIM is virtually an operating environment, which is significantly
     more powerful and sophisticated then a menu system, yet not to the
     extent of Windows.  All three have the capability to "launch"
     applications by simply choosing a selection.  However, it would be an
     injustice to call Windows or MAXimize a menu system due to their
     significantly greater speed, ease, capabilities and sophistication.

     MAXimize comes in two editions, the Basic edition for novice to
     intermediate users and the Gold edition for the intermediate to
     advanced computer users.  Both editions can run on Local Area Networks
     (LANs), including usage logging and license control capabilities.

     The Gold edition contains many more options and features than the
     Basic edition.  It is thus more sophisticated due to its additional
     capabilities (although these can be ignored).  Since both editions
     share the same file formats, files created on either will run on both.
     However, if the advanced capabilities of the Gold edition are used in
     a selection/menu, the basic edition may not be able to update it.

     The two editions and the ability to run on LANs, allow MAXimize to
     appeal to a broad range of users.  These users range from a novice
     working out of their home to large corporations using LANs.

     MAXimize is a truly sophisticated and professional application
     interface manager.  It combines lightning speed, high limits, powerful
     and easy update facilities and an abundance of features.  This
     translates into flexibility and capability far superior to anything
     else on the market.


     Feature List for Both the Gold and Basic Editions:
     ==================================================

     What separates an Application Interface Manager, and specifically
     MAXimize, from other products is its significantly greater speed, ease
     or use and change, capabilities and sophistication.  The following
     list of features clearly shows this.  The features of both the Basic
     and Gold editions of MAXimize are shown below.  Each item which is
     unique to MAXimize or that is not in many other software packages has
     been preceded by a star (*) instead of a greater-than symbol (>).

     > MAXimize is VERY fast

     * Menus can be shown in a maximized window or cascaded windows!

     > Takes no memory away from applications being ran

     * Systems Application Architecture (SAA) / Common User Access (CUA).
       With "menu bar", pull down menus, dialog buttons & keyboard input.

     * Hide or disable items in the menu bar or its pulldowns.

     * Built in support to run multiple sessions of MAXimize under a task
       switching application like Software Carousel and OS/2 2.0.

     > Fully customize menus, selections, colors and directories

     * Integrated and sophisticated options, menu and selection editor

     * Multiple user support on one computer.  Each user may have a
       different setup (options and menus).

     * Each menu may have up to 99 selections - on one screen!  If you
       have ever used a menu system with a limit of 16 selections per
       menu, and eventually needed 17, you'll appreciate this.

     * Menus may be doubled spaced or displayed in multiple columns.  If
       the selections simply will not fit in the menu, then the menu will
       be scrolled with the standard scroll bar.

     * MAXimize maintains the current position (menu and selection) after
       running a selection.  Run the selection again without navigation.

     * Hot keys can be used to run often used applications without having
       to navigate to a menu

     * True mouse support using text cursor and scroll bars where needed

     * Selections can be easily copied or transferred (moved) within a
       menu or to other menus (even to and from the hot keys)

     * Update, delete, copy, & transfer many selections in one operation

     * Extensive on-line help

     * Complete Local Area Network (LAN) and shared PC support

     * The ability to track (log) selection usage

     * Log security violations

     * License control to limit concurrent access to programs (LANs).

     * Utility to manipulate/report on usage log & license control info

     > TSR to disable the break key and reboots (Ctrl+Alt+Delete)

     > Menus may have sub-menus (up to 10 menus deep)

     > Single keystroke and point-and-press selection of menu items

     > Simple selection entry/update through two types of selections that
       do complete error checking: a) Display a menu & b) Run a program

     > Selections may prompt for input parameters with one prompt

     > Extensive password protection and encryption

     > Secure screen save/blank feature to prevent screen "burning" and
       unathorized PC usage while it is unattended.

     Additional Features in MAXimize Gold
     ====================================

     * You may add up to ten lines of text to a menu.  This text may be
       your company name, logo or an explanation of how to use the menu.

     * EGA/VGA support for 25, 43 or 50 line screen modes

     * Five types of selection ID's (the ID that identifies the selection
       and that the user may enter to choose it):

         - Alpha-numeric - letters A to Z followed by 0 to 9
         - Numeric - 1 to 99
         - First character - first character of selection description
         - Specify - choose a character in selection description
         - None - no selection ID - user must point-and-press

     * An additional selection type (above the two mentioned earlier)
       that allows you to execute a set of commands similar to a batch
       file, but with several very powerful extensions

     * Full function editor, with mouse block operations like cut & paste

     * Selections may prompt for input.  These prompts may be either for
       text or for an item in a list.

     * Selections can do multiple prompts

     * Selections can prompt for files, directories or drives, with the
       &File, &Dir and &Drive functions using sophisticated dialog boxes

     * Selections can conditionally execute (or prompt) using the &If and
       &GoTo functions.  For example, the selection could prompt for a
       drive (like A:, B:, C:) and then choose to do further prompts
       differently for floppy drives then for the hard drive.

     * Extensive variable support.  This includes environment, global,
       input and special variables.  For example, the samples include a
       selection that allows you to change the PATH environment variable.
       Another example is special variables that allow you to get the
       current date, time, drive, directory, DOS version, etc.

     * Create a help message to appear at the bottom of the window and/or
       help text to appear when F1 pressed

     * Time delay execution of applications invoked by a selection

     * Utility to "type" keys as if from keyboard from batch file

     * Batch files can be imported into or exported from a selection

     > Selections can be defined to shell directly to the programs
```
{% endraw %}

## MANUAL.DOC

{% raw %}
```



                               MAXimize Basic Edition
                               ======================


                                    Version 3.1


                      Copyright (C) 1988,1990 by Don Cappaert
                                All rights reserved.



    MAXimize is distributed as "Shareware" and is fully copyrighted.  You may
    have received a copy of MAXimize free or for a small fee, from a a public
    bulletin board, shareware library, shareware disk vendor or user's group
    library.  You are encouraged to make as many copies of the software and this
    documentation as you like and distribute it to anyone you want, as long as
    you do not charge a fee (other than to cover your own distribution cost) and
    distribute only complete, unaltered copies of the package, exactly as you
    received it.  Please read the shareware screen displayed when MAXimize is
    invoked.

    If after trying the program for 60 days, you find it useful and use it
    regularly, you must register your copy by completing the registration form
    printed (you are asked if the order form should be printed when you first
    enter MAXimize).  The order form (file ORDER.DOC) can also be printed using
    the DOS command "COPY ORDER.DOC PRN".

    There is only one differences between the shareware version and the
    registered version of MAXimize.  The shareware version displays a screen
    when it is first invoked.  This screen is a reminder that you are using the
    unregistered version of MAXimize.

    The MAXLOG.EXE and MAXCONVT.EXE programs are distributed in a separate file
    (MAXUTL30.ZIP) because of their size (over 300k) and because they are used
    by both the Gold and Basic editions.  MAXLOG.EXE is a report utility for the
    usage log and is also used for license control.  While MAXLOG.EXE is a
    convenient reporting utility, you may use any XBase database to generate
    reports.  If you would like to try MAXLOG.EXE or MAXCONVT.EXE and cannot
    find MAXUTL30.ZIP, please send Max Software a check for $5 (to cover
    shipping and handling) and request MAXUTL30.ZIP be sent to you.

    When you register MAXimize, you will receive a beautiful manual, a reference
    card and the latest version of MAXimize on a diskette.  Max Software will
    provide support for any problems or questions you might have.  You will also
    be notified when there are updates to or newer versions of MAXimize.


    Max Software
    9121 141st West
    Taylor Ridge, IL 61284 USA
    CompuServe user ID: 71170,740
    Phone number: 309-798-2533


    Table of Contents
    =================

    Introduction.............................................1
         What is MAXimize?...................................1
         Features............................................1
         About this Manual...................................4
         System Requirements.................................4
         Installation........................................4
         Files installed.....................................5
         Getting Started Quickly.............................5
         Definition of Shareware.............................6
         Disclaimer Agreement................................6

    Chapter 1: Using the Menus...............................8
         Invoking MAXimize...................................8
         Menu Anatomy........................................8
         Menu Bar............................................10
         Dialog Boxes........................................11
              Buttons........................................12
              Fields.........................................12
              Editing Keys...................................12
              Toggles........................................13
              Lists..........................................13
         Getting Help........................................14
         Moving the Selection Bar Within a Menu..............15
         Choosing a Selection................................15
         Displaying Other Menus..............................15
         Window Cascade......................................16
         Screen Save and Protection..........................16
         Input Prompts.......................................17
         Quitting MAXimize...................................18
         Advanced Topics.....................................18
              Using a Mouse..................................18
              Hot Keys.......................................19
              Invoking MAXimize with Parameters..............21
              Using MAXimize with a Task Switcher............21
              Go To DOS......................................23

    Chapter 2: Modifying Menus...............................24
         Overview............................................24
              Marking Selection(s)...........................25
              Selection Formats (Types)......................25
                   Run a Program, Command or Batch File......25
                   Display a New or Existing Menu............27
         Update Menu Characteristics (Title, Password).......28
         Add a Selection / Sub-Menu..........................29
         Update a Selection..................................31
         Copy or Transfer a Selection........................32
         Delete a Selection / Sub-Menu.......................34
         Advanced Topics.....................................35
              Selections that Return to Prior/Main Menu......35
              Quit Selection.................................35
              Parameters and Prompt..........................35

    Chapter 3: Customizing MAXimize - Options................37


         Colors..............................................37
         Password Protection.................................40
         Miscellaneous.......................................42
         Reset Options.......................................43
         Update Mode.........................................43
         User ID.............................................44
         Project.............................................44

    Chapter 4: Using MAXimize's Utilities....................45
         Changing the Setup with MAXSETUP....................45
         Viewing a File's Contents...........................45
         Preventing Control Break and Reboot.................46
         Delayed Execution of Commands.......................47
         Mouse Initialization................................47

    Chapter 5: Controlling and Monitoring Access.............48
         Security............................................48
              Forgotten Passwords............................48
              Protecting MAXimize or DOS Access..............48
              Preventing Unauthorized Changes................49
              Securing an Unattended Computer................49
              Protecting Menus and Selections................49
              Selection Password Annoying....................49
              Truly Securing MAXimize........................50
         Monitoring Access...................................50
              The Usage Log..................................50
              Reducing the Data Viewed.......................52
              Sequencing the Usage Log Data..................54
              Set Program Used...............................54
              Usage Log Reports..............................55
         Limiting License Usage..............................56
              License Control................................57
              Add License Control............................58
              Edit License Control...........................58
              Delete License Control.........................59
              Disable Program Execution......................59
              Display Current Users..........................59
              License Control Reports........................60
         Periodic Maintenance to Databases...................60

    Appendix A: Hints........................................62
         Renaming MENU.BAT file..............................62
         Maximizing Performance..............................62

    Appendix B: Trouble Shooting and Technical Support.......63

    Appendix C: Networks and Shared PCs......................64

    Appendix D: Messages.....................................66

    Index....................................................73


    Introduction
    ============

    What is MAXimize?
    =================

    MAXimize is an Application Interface Manager (AIM) that will dramatically
    improve your productivity by allowing you to easily design, build and
    control the interface to your applications.    You will find it easy and fun
    to build your own interface to the applications on your computer.  The
    result is an intuitive interface designed specifically for you.  This will
    increase your speed and reduce errors, thus dramatically improving your
    productivity both when using and changing that interface.

    An AIM is virtually an operating environment, which is significantly more
    powerful and sophisticated then a menu system, yet not to the extent of
    Windows.  All three have the capability to "launch" applications by simply
    choosing a selection.  However, it would be an injustice to call Windows or
    MAXimize a menu system due to their significantly greater capabilities and
    sophistication.

    MAXimize comes in two editions, the Basic edition for novice to intermediate
    users and the Gold edition for the intermediate to advanced computer users.
    Both editions can run on Local Area Networks (LANs), including usage logging
    and license control capabilities.  The two editions and the ability to run
    on LANs, allow MAXimize to appeal to a broad range of users.  These users
    range from a novice working out of their home to large corporations using
    LANs.

    The Gold edition contains many more options and features than the Basic
    edition.  It is thus more sophisticated due to its additional capabilities
    (although these can be ignored).  Since both editions share the same file
    formats, files created on either will run on both.  However, if the advanced
    capabilities of the Gold edition are used in a selection/menu, you may not
    be able to edit this selection/menu with the Basic edition.

    MAXimize is a truly sophisticated and professional application interface
    manager.  It combines lightning speed, high limits, powerful and easy update
    facilities and an abundance of features.  This translates into flexibility
    and capability far superior to anything else on the market.


    Features
    ========

    What separates an Application Interface Manager, and specifically MAXimize,
    from other products is its significantly greater capabilities and
    sophistication.  The feature list below clearly shows this.  Each item which
    is unique to MAXimize or that is not in many other software packages has
    been preceded by a astericks (*) instead of a dash (-).

    - MAXimize is very fast.

    - Takes no memory away from applications being ran
                                                                               2

    * Systems Application Architecture (SAA) / Common User Access (CUA). With
      "menu bar", pull down menus, dialog buttons & keyboard input.

    * Menus displayed in a cascaded fashion on top of wallpaper.

    * Built in support to run multiple sessions of MAXimize under a task
      switching application like Software Carousel and OS/2 2.0.

    * Fully customize menus, selections, colors and directories

    * Integrated and sophisticated options, menu and selection editor

    * Multiple user support on one computer.  Each user may have a different
      setup (options and menus).

    * Each menu may have up to 99 selections - on one screen!  If you have
      ever used a menu system with a limit of 16 selections per menu, and
      eventually needed 17, you'll appreciate this.

    * Menus may be doubled spaced or displayed in multiple columns.  If the
      selections simply will not fit in the menu, then the menu will be
      scrolled with the standard scroll bar.

    * MAXimize maintains the current position (menu and selection) after
      running a selection.  Run the selection again without navigation.

    * Hot keys are selections can be invoked to run often used applications
      without having to navigate to a menu!

    * True mouse support using text cursor and scroll bars where needed

    * Selections can be easily copied or transferred (moved) within a menu or
      to other menus (even to and from the hot keys)

    * Update, delete, copy, and transfer multiple selections easily with one
      operation

    * Extensive on-line help.

    * Complete Local Area Network (LAN) and shared PC support

    * The ability to track (log) selection usage.  Keep track of whom, when and
      how long a selection is being used.  Even by Projects!

    * Log security violations.

    * License control to limit concurrent access to programs (LANs).

    * Utility to manipulate/report on the usage log and license control
      databases.

    - TSR to disable the break key and reboots (Ctrl+Alt+Delete)

    - Menus may have sub-menus (up to 10 menus deep).

    - Single keystroke and point-and-press selection of menu items.
                                                                               3


    - Simple selection entry/update through two types of selections that do
      complete error checking: a) Display a menu & b) Run a program

    - Selections may prompt for input parameters with one prompt

    - Extensive password protection and encryption

    - Secure screen save/blank feature to prevent screen "burning" and
      unathorized PC usage while it is unattended.

    Additional Features in MAXimize Gold
    ------------------------------------

    * You may add up to ten lines of text to a menu.  This text may be your
      company name, logo or an explanation of the menu.

    * EGA/VGA support for 25, 43 or 50 line screen modes.

    * Five types of selection ID's (the ID that identifies the selection and
      that the user may enter to choose it):

        - Alpha-numeric - letters A to Z followed by 0 to 9.
        - Numeric - 1 to 99.
        - First character - first character of selection description,
        - Specify ID - Specify the character in description (like X in eXit)
        - None - no selection ID.  User must point-and-press.

    * An additional selection type (above the two mentioned earlier) that
      allows you to execute a set of commands similar to a batch file, but
      with several very powerful extensions

    * Full function editor, with mouse block operations like cut & paste

    * Selections may prompt for input.  These prompts may be either for text
      or for an item in a list.

    * Selections can do multiple prompts

    * Selections can prompt for files, directories or drives, with the &File,
      &Dir and &Drive functions using sophisticated dialog boxes

    * Selections can conditionally execute (or prompt) using the &If and &GoTo
      functions.  For example, the selection could prompt for a drive (like
      A:, B:, C:) and then choose to do further prompts differently for floppy
      drives then for the hard drive.

    * Extensive variable support.  This includes environment, global, input
      and special variables.  For example, the samples include a selection
      that allows you to change the PATH environment variable.  Another
      example is special variables that allow you to get the current date,
      time, drive, directory, DOS version, etc.

    * Create a help message to appear at the bottom of the window and/or help
      text to appear when F1 pressed
                                                                               4

    * Time delay execution of applications invoked by a selection

    * Utility to "type" keys as if from keyboard from batch file

    - Batch files can be imported into or exported from a selection

    - Selections can be defined to shell directly to the program


    About this Manual
    =================

    This manual has been divided into several chapters.  The introduction
    contains information on the system requirements, files, menus and
    installation instructions. Also, there is a Getting started quickly section
    for those users who are familiar with DOS and want to use MAXimize before
    reading the manual.  If you fall into this category, read the introduction
    before attempting to use MAXimize.

    The first chapter explains how to use, but not modify, MAXimize's menus.
    This includes invoking MAXimize, navigating to sub-menus, choosing a
    selection and quitting.  This chapter should be sufficient reading for users
    who are not responsible for making changes to MAXimize's setup (menus and
    options).

    The second chapter explains how to modify the menus and the third chapter
    explains how to change the options (colors, passwords, etc.).  The fourth
    chapter has information about the utilities included with MAXimize.   The
    last chapter describes how to control and monitor the use of the
    applications on your computer.  Finally, there are some appendixes that
    contain useful hints, common problems, LAN/shared PC information and a list
    of messages.


    System Requirements
    ===================

    MAXimize requires MS-DOS / PC-DOS version 2.0 or higher.  It is designed to
    work on the IBM PC, XT, AT or PS2 models, or a fully compatible machine.  A
    minimum of 384K of memory is also required.  While MAXimize can run from a
    floppy-based system, it is highly recommended that you have a hard-disk
    system.


    Installation
    ============

    You have already unpacked the MAXimize files.  To install MAXimize simply
    run the INSTALL program.  The installation program will ask a few simple
    questions and finish the installation.  For network and shared PC
    installations, please review Appendix C.
                                                                               5

    Files installed
    ===============

    The distribution diskette will contain the installation program INSTALL.EXE
    and some self extracting files of the form MAXB?##.EXE (where ## is the
    release number and ? is a file identifier).  The INSTALL.EXE program will
    unpack the self extracting files and then install MAXimize.  The install
    unpacks all of these files:

       File:           Description of file:
       --------------  ----------------------------------------------------
       MAX.EXE         starts MAXimize.
       MENU.BAT        starts MAXimize (alternate method).
       SESSION.BAT     starts a MAXimize session.  For use with a task
                       switcher.
       MAXSETUP.EXE    modifies the setup (menus and options).
       MAXIMIZE.INI    Initialization file
       MAXIMIZE.OVL    common routines - used internally by MAX.EXE and
                       MAXSETUP.EXE.
       MAXIMIZE.SET    contains the options (passwords, colors, etc).
       MAXIMIZE.HLP    is the on-line help file.
       MAXIMIZE.KYS    is the hot keys.
       *.MNU           are menus (all menus have .MNU extension).  The
                       sample menus start with SAMP.  Only samples menus
                       are replaced on reinstall.
       MAXLOG.EXE      Usage log and license control utility.  Will browse,
                       query, print and maintain these DBF files.
                       (packaged separately - see README file).
       MAXLOG.DBF      User-Log database.
       MAXCHK.DBF      License control database (LAN version only).
       VIEW.EXE        is a file viewer program used in the samples.
       WAITTILL.COM    utility waits till a specified time or a key press.
       NOBREAK.COM     Prevents (control) break out of MAXimize and all
                       batch files.  Also prevents Ctrl+Alt+Del reboot.
       VENDOR.DOC      Vendor registration form.
       ORDER.DOC       is the order form.
       FEATURES.DOC    lists the features of MAXimize.
       WHATSNEW.DOC    list changes for this version
       MANUAL.DOC      The manual that explains MAXimize
       FILE_ID.DIZ     Bulletin board description of MAXimize
       README          contains information about MAXimize, including quick
                       start instructions.
       INSTALL.EXE     Installation program.  Run this program to finish
                       installation.  Deletes itself after installation
                       completed.
       NEWFILES.EXE    Self-extracting file that contains files used for
                       first time installs.  File is deleted after
                       installation completed by INSTALL.EXE


    Getting Started Quickly
    =======================

    The README file contains a section on how to get started quickly.  If you
    want to get started quickly then read this file.
                                                                               6


    Definition of Shareware
    =======================

    Shareware distribution gives users a chance to try software before buying
    it.  If you try a Shareware program and continue using it, you are expected
    to register.  Individual programs differ on details -- some request
    registration while others require it, some specify a maximum trial period.
    With registration, you get anything from the simple right to continue
    using the software to an updated program with printed manual.

    Copyright laws apply to both Shareware and commercial software, and the
    copyright holder retains all rights, with a few specific exceptions as
    stated below.  Shareware authors are accomplished programmers, just like
    commercial authors, and the programs are of comparable quality.  (In both
    cases, there are good programs and bad ones!) The main difference is in the
    method of distribution.  The author specifically grants the right to copy
    and distribute the software, either to all and sundry or to a specific
    group. For example, some authors require written permission before a
    commercial disk vendor may copy their Shareware.

    Shareware is a distribution method, not a type of software.  You should find
    software that suits your needs and pocketbook, whether it's commercial or
    Shareware.  The Shareware system makes fitting your needs easier, because
    you can try before you buy.  And because the overhead is low, prices are low
    also.  Shareware has the ultimate money-back guarantee -- if you don't use
    the product, you don't pay for it.


    Disclaimer Agreement
    ====================

    Users of MAXimize must accept this disclaimer of warranty: MAXimize is
    supplied as is.  The author disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied,
    including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability and of
    fitness for any purpose.  The author assumes no liability for damages,
    direct or consequential, which may result from the use of MAXimize.

    MAXimize is a "shareware program" and is provided at no charge to the user
    for evaluation.  Feel free to share it with your friends, but please do not
    give it away altered or as part of another system.  The essence of "user-
    supported" software is to provide personal computer users with quality
    software without high prices, and yet to provide incentive for programmers
    to continue to develop new products.  If you find this program useful and
    find that you are using MAXimize and continue to use MAXimize after a
    reasonable trial period, you must make a registration payment of $39 to Max
    Software.  The $39 registration fee will license one copy for use on any one
    computer at any one time.  You must treat this software just like a book.
    An example is that this software may be used by any number of people and may
    be freely moved from one computer location to another, so long as there is
    no possibility of it being used at one location while it's being used at
    another.  Just as a book cannot be read by two different persons at the same
    time.
                                                                               7

    Commercial users of MAXimize must register and pay for their copies of
    MAXimize within 60 days of first use or their license is withdrawn.  Site-
    License arrangements may be made by contacting Max Software.

    Anyone distributing MAXimize for any kind of remuneration must first contact
    Max Software at the address below for authorization.  This authorization
    will be automatically granted to distributors recognized by the (ASP) as
    adhering to its guidelines for shareware distributors, and such distributors
    may begin offering MAXimize immediately (However Max Software must still be
    advised so that the distributor can be kept up-to-date with the latest
    version of MAXimize.).

    You are encouraged to pass a copy of MAXimize along to your friends for
    evaluation.  Please encourage them to register their copy if they find that
    they can use it.  All registered users will receive a copy of the latest
    version of MAXimize.
                                                                               8

    Chapter 1: Using the Menus
    ==========================

    Invoking MAXimize
    =================

    To invoke MAXimize, you must first change to the directory containing
    MAXimize (unless this directory is in your PATH) and then type MAX or MENU
    at the DOS prompt.  Thus, if you installed into C:\MAX, the commands are:

       A> C:
       C> CHDIR  \MAX
       C> MAX

    MAX is slightly faster then Menu.  However, MAX may display a message before
    or after executing a selection.  Try both to determine your preference.


    Menu Anatomy
    ============

    After invoking MAXimize, the main menu will be displayed:

      File  Edit  Options  Window  Help

     +------------------------------+ Main Menu +-----------------------------+
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                           1 View Documentation                         |
     |                                                                        |
     |                           2 Print Documentation                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                           3 Samples menu                               |
     |                                                                        |
     |                           4 Exit                                       |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     +------------------------------------------------------------------------+

    MAXimize  +=Select_Item  ^v><=Next_Item  Alt=Actions  09:38pm  30OCT92




      The following is a list of the items in MAXimize's screen:

      Menu Bar       - the top line of the screen.
                                                                               9

      Project        - To the right on the top line the current project being
                       worked on is displayed.  This may be blank if there is
                       no project.  In the example this is Project1.

      Main Window    - the large window below the menu bar.  This window will
                       be cascaded.  It will be used to hold selections for
                       your menus.

      Wall Paper     - The shaded background behind the cascaded main window.

      Border         - the double line drawn around the main window.

      Title          - the name given to the menu.  In the example above the
                       title is Main Menu.

      Selection Description   -    a short description of what the selection
                       will do. For example, the "Games menu" selection
                       displays a menu of games.

      Selection IDs  - the highlighted identifier in each selection.  For
                       example, the selection ID for "Word Processing" in the
                       example above is "W".  This selection ID may be the
                       first character of the description, a number (from 1 to
                       99), alpha-numeric (the letters A to Z, followed by
                       numbers 0 to 9., a character within the description
                       (like X in eXit), or none at all.

      Selection Bar  - highlights the current selection.  The current selection
                       in the example above is "View MAXimize Documentation".

      Help message   - contains additional information/help for the current
                       selection.  It is displayed in the bottom left hand
                       corner of the main window border.

      Status line    - will always be displayed at the bottom of the screen
                       showing the current date/time and a list of keys most
                       often needed.  It may contain a message as well.  The
                       keys and messages in this line will change as you do
                       different tasks within MAXimize (such as add, update,
                       delete, etc.).  The status of the Alt, Ctrl, Caps Lock,
                       Shift and Num Lock keys are displayed as well.  Try
                       pressing these keys to see how they are displayed.  Look
                       at the status line if you are not sure what keys to use.

      Scroll bars    - displayed when the menu's selections will not fit in the
                       window or for multiple line text.  The window can be
                       scrolled to view selections or text that do not fit in
                       the window.  For menus, the scroll bar is always
                       vertical and appears on the right edge of the window.
                       Text will always have both a vertical and horizontal
                       scroll bar.  A horizontal scroll bar will appear on the
                       bottom edge of the area being scrolled.
                                                                              10

      Scroll box     - shows how far you are positioned into the menu or text.
                       For example, if the scroll box is in the middle of the
                       scroll bar then you are positioned in the middle of the
                       menu/text.

      Arrow icons    - placed on both ends of the scroll bar to show that the
                       window can be scrolled in those directions.


    Menu Bar
    ========

    The menu bar is the top line of the screen.  It contains a list of items,
    each of which displays a drop down menu.  From the drop down menu you may
    choose a command that instructs MAXimize to perform actions.  To activate
    the menu bar press the Alt, F10 or slash (/) key.   Then press the first
    letter of the desired item on the menu bar.   For example, to get help press
    Alt+H and the help drop down menu will be displayed:

      File  Edit  Options  Window  Help
                                  +--------------------+
     +----------------------------| For MAXimize    F2 |----------------------+
     |                            +--------------------+                      |
     |                            | About MAXimize     |                      |
     |                            +--------------------+                      |
     |                                                                        |
     |                           1 View Documentation                         |
     |                                                                        |
     |                           2 Print Documentation                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                           3 Samples menu                               |
     |                                                                        |
     |                           4 Exit                                       |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     |                                                                        |
     +------------------------------------------------------------------------+

    MAXimize  +=Select_Item  ^v><=Next_Item  Alt=Actions  09:38pm  30OCT92



    From this drop down menu you can select the desired help command by pressing
    the highlighted character.  The commands in the drop down menus also
    includes (on the right side) the short cut key for the command.  These keys
    can be used instead of selecting the command from the drop down menus.  For
    example, you can get help for MAXimize using the menu bar by pressing Alt+H
    M or by pressing the F2 short cut key.  As you become more familiar with
    MAXimize, you will probably find the short cut keys to be easy to remember
    and quicker.
                                                                              11

    Dialog Boxes
    ============

    MAXimize uses dialog boxes to allow you to enter information to carry out a
    selection or command.  For example, the following is the dialog box used
    when you enter the command to create a new selection that runs a program,
    command or batch file (press Insert then Enter to view this dialog box):

    +----------+ Selection to run a program, command or batch file +-----------+
    |                                                                          |
    | Description:                                                             |
    |     Program:                                                             |
    |                                                                          |
    +-- Optional v ------------------------------------------------------------+
    |                                                                          |
    |  Parameters:                                                             |
    |    Track By:                                                             |
    |    Password:                                                             |
    |                                                                          |
    |   [ ] Pause after program runs           [ ] Input program parameters    |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    |            < OK >             < Cancel >             < Help >            |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+


    The dialog box above contains multiple items: fields, toggles and buttons.
    The fields in the dialog box above all end in a colon, such as description ,
    program and password.  A list is two or more selections preceded by
    parenthesis, of which you may choose only one.   A toggle is an option that
    may be on or off and is preceded by square brackets ([ ]).  The buttons are
    enclosed in less than and greater than symbols (< >) along the bottom of the
    window.  Each dialog box will have at least one message, field, list or
    toggle and a button.

    Moving the cursor to a field, list, toggle or button can be done by using
    the following keys:

       Tab .........The Tab key is normally located just above the left Caps
                    Lock key. When pressed, it will move the cursor through the
                    items on the screen from left to right, top to bottom.
                    When the cursor reaches the last item, the next Tab will
                    return to the first item.

       Shift+Tab  ..The Shift+Tab key is the combination of holding the Shift
                    key down while press the Tab key.  This causes the cursor
                    to move from right to left, bottom to top (the reverse of
                    Tab).  When the cursor reaches the first item, the next
                    Shift+Tab will go to the last item.

       Down arrow  .The down arrow will go to the next item, unless the current
                    item uses it (like the lists in the add selection dialog
                    box).

       Up arrow ....The up arrow will go to the prior item, unless the current
                    item uses it (like the lists in the add selection dialog
                    box).
                                                                              12


       Alt+? .......Alt+? is the combination of holding the Alt key down while
                    pressing the highlighted key for an item.  Most of the
                    items will have a highlighted key to allow you to use this
                    method to quickly move to an item.  For example, pressing
                    Alt+P in the above dialog box will move to the program
                    field.   Using this method to move to a selection in a list
                    will select it, or to move to a toggle will turn it on/off
                    or to move to a button will depress (select) it.


    Buttons
    =======

    Buttons normally appear along the bottom of a dialog box and are always
    enclosed in less than and greater than symbols (eq. < OK >).   Pressing a
    button requests an action be taken.  For example, pressing cancel will
    cancel a dialog box .   To press a button, you may use the Tab or Shift+Tab
    keys to position the cursor to the desired button and then use the Enter or
    space bar key to depress it.   Also, you may hold the Alt key down while
    pressing the highlighted key in the button (eq. Alt+H would depress the Help
    button).

    Generally speaking there will usually be an OK, Cancel and Help button in
    each dialog box.  Depressing the OK button causes the dialog box to accept
    the information within it.  Depressing Cancel causes the action associated
    with the dialog box to be canceled.  Depressing Help requests help for the
    dialog box.  Dialog boxes may also contain other buttons, these are
    explained in the sections covering these dialog boxes.

    If a button is highlighted while the cursor is not positioned on it then
    pressing Enter will also depress that button.  Normally, this will be the OK
    button.  Thus, pressing enter while not on a button will normally cause the
    dialog box information to be accepted.


    Fields
    ======

    Fields are used in dialog boxes where input text is to be typed.  These
    fields are usually labeled (eq. Program: is the label for the field to
    contain the program name).  However, if the dialog box consists of only one
    field and some buttons (such as the input prompt window), then the field may
    not be labeled.  You should position to a field as described earlier and
    then type the desired text.  While typing text you may also use the editing
    keys outlined in the next section.


    Editing Keys
    ============

    The following keys are always available for editing purposes:

      Left arrow ...Move the cursor left one character
      Right arrow ..Move the cursor right one character
      Home  ........Move the cursor to start of line
                                                                              13

      End  .........Move the cursor to end of line
      Insert  ......Toggle between insert and overwrite mode
      Delete  ......Delete character at cursor
      Backspace  ...Delete character before cursor
      Ctrl+Y .......Clear the entire line
      Ctrl+Delete ..Clear the line from cursor to end

      Note:  insert mode causes the character typed to be inserted at the cursor
             and overwrite mode causes the character typed to replace the
             character at the cursor.  The current mode will show up in the
             status line as INS or OVR.


    Toggles
    =======

    Toggles are used in dialog boxes for options that may be on or off.  Each
    toggle is preceded by a set of square brackets([ ]).  The toggle is on when
    an X is displayed within the square brackets (eq. [X]).  To change a toggle
    from on to off or visa versa,  you may use the Tab or Shift+Tab keys to
    position the cursor to the desired toggle and then press the space bar.
    Finally, you may hold the Alt key down while pressing the highlighted key in
    the toggle (eq. Alt+I would toggle "Input prompt parameters").


    Lists
    =====

    Lists are used in dialog boxes when you must choose one selection from a
    list.  Each selection in the list is preceded by a set of parenthesis.   For
    example, when creating a new selection, the add dialog box will be displayed
    (press Insert to view this dialog box):

                +----------------+ Add Selection +-----------------+
                |                                                  |
                |  Where: (_) After highlighted selection          |
                |         ( ) Before highlighted selection         |
                |                                                  |
                | Format: (_) Run a program, command or batch file |
                |         ( ) Display a new or existing menu       |
                |                                                  |
                +--------------------------------------------------+
                |      < OK >       < Cancel >       < Help >      |
                +--------------------------------------------------+


    This dialog box contains a list for where the selection should be added and
    another for the selection's format.  The current selection in each list is
    denoted by a dot within the parenthesis.  To change the current selection in
    a list, you may use the Tab or Shift+Tab keys to position the cursor to the
    desired list and then use the arrow keys to move the dot.  Also, you may
    hold the Alt key down while pressing the highlighted key in the selection
    (eq. Alt+B would select "Before highlighted selection").
                                                                              14


    Getting Help
    ============

    To get help on how to use MAXimize, press Alt+H M or the F2 short cut key.
    This will display the help screen which has two windows.  The left window
    contains a menu of topics, and the right window has an explanation of the
    highlighted topic.  The sequence of topics allows new users to read all
    about MAXimize by pressing the down arrow key to read the next topic.  To
    view the explanation for a topic, press the highlighted character for that
    topic.  For example, press Alt+H M and then K to get the following help:

      File  Edit  Options  Windows  Help
    +----- Topics: ------+--------------------- Keyboard ---------------------+
    | How to use help    ^                                                    |
    | Getting help       # MAXimize's assignment of the keyboard keys are     |
    | General menu info  # explained in the following help sections:          |
    | Copyright notice   #                                                    |
    | Order Information  O Navigating menus - how to go to other menus.       |
    | Keyboard           # Function keys    - what the function keys do.      |
    |   Navigating menus # Hot keys         - invoking often used programs    |
    |   Function keys    #                    without navigating to a menu.   |
    |   Hot keys         # Editing keys     - normal editing keys.            |
    |   Editing keys     #                                                    |
    | Mouse              # To choose one of the above, just Tab to it and pres|
    | Status line        # Enter.  To review them all, just press the down    |
    | Menu bar line      # arrow after reading each one.                      |
    | Prompt window      #                                                    |
    | Warning messages   # You can also use a mouse as a means to select items|
    | File and Exit      # and to do block operations.                        |
    | Edit               #                                                    |
    |   Update selection #                                                    |
    |   Update menu      #                                                    |
    |   Add              #                                                    |
    |   Copy             v                                                    |
    +--------------------+----------------------------------------------------+
    Help: F1=Help v=Next_Topic <=Prior_Topic >=Related_Topics =Choose Esc=Done


    You may use the following keys:

      Up arrow.............Up one topic
      Down arrow...........Down one topic
      Home.................First topic
      End..................Last topic
      Left arrow...........Prior (related) topic
      Right arrow or Tab...Positions to a related topic within the text
      Enter................Selects (displays) the related topic positioned on

    Related topics mentioned within the text of the topic displayed are shown in
    a different color (the same color as the topics in the left window).  You
    may use the right arrow, Tab or Shift+Tab keys to position to a related
    topic. Then press the Enter key to display the related topic.  To return to
    the prior topic, simply press the left arrow key (this can be done
    repeatedly to retrace your steps backward through related topics).
                                                                              15

    To leave MAXimize's help, press the Esc key.


    Moving the Selection Bar Within a Menu
    ======================================

    MAXimize uses the same keys in all menus to move the selection bar:

       Up arrow.......Up one row.
       Down arrow.....Down one row.
       Left arrow.....Left one column.
       Right arrow....Right one column.
       Home...........First selection.
       End............Last selection.
       PgUp...........Page up (for menus that scroll).
       PgDn...........Page down (for menus that scroll).

    Try each of these keys.  Notice the selection bar "wraps" around when the
    arrow keys are held down.  If you press the down arrow key when positioned
    on the last item, the selection bar will be placed on the first item.


    Choosing a Selection
    ====================

    To choose a selection, type the highlighted selection ID or move the
    selection bar to the desired item and press the Enter key.  The highlighted
    selection ID is numeric and on the left side of the selections'
    description,.  This ID should be a different color.  Try choosing the
    "Samples menu" selection on the main menu by pressing 3.


    Displaying Other Menus
    ======================

    Navigating to a lower level (sub) menu is done by choosing the appropriate
    selection.  For example, choosing the "Samples menu" selection on the main
    menu will display the following sub-menu:
                                                                              16

      File  Edit  Options  Window  Help

     +------------------------------+ Main Menu +----------------------------+
     |+---------------------------+ MAXimize Samples +------------------------+
     ||                                                                       |
     ||                                                                       |
     ||                                                                       |
     ||                                                                       |
     ||                          1 Check disk drive                           |
     ||                          2 Display volume label                       |
     ||                          3 Set volume label                           |
     ||                          4 DOS version                                |
     ||                          5 Date change                                |
     ||                          6 Time change                                |
     ||                          7 User-log menu                              |
     ||                          8 Return to main menu                        |
     ||                                                                       |
     ||                                                                       |
     ||                                                                       |
     ||                                                                       |
     +|                                                                       |
      +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

    MAXimize  +=Select_Item  ^v><=Next_Item  Alt=Actions  09:38pm  30OCT92



    To return to the prior menu press Alt+F P or the Esc short cut key.  To
    return directly to the main menu from any sub-menu, type Alt+F M or the
    backslash (\) short cut key.  To return to a previous menu, press Alt+W
    followed by the number displayed to the left of the menu to return to.


    Window Cascade
    ==============

    By default, MAXimize displays your menus in cascading windows.  That is,
    each submenu (lower level menu) the is displayed will overlay the previous
    one on the screen.  Later, you will be shown how to change this default in
    the miscellaneous options.  Any time after starting MAXimize, you may toggle
    between cascaded and full sized menu windows by pressing the Alt+W C keys or
    the F3 short cut key.  You may find it useful to display a menu with lots of
    selections in a full sized window.


    Screen Save and Protection
    ==========================

    MAXimize can automatically clear the screen after a specified period of time
    to prevent the characters from burning into the screen and/or to prevent
    unauthorized use of your unattended computer.  The setting of this automatic
    screen "save" feature is discussed later under miscellaneous options.  You
    can also cause the screen to be cleared (or "saved") by pressing the Alt+W S
    keys of the Shift+F10 short cut key.  This is useful when you leave your
    computer for a period of time, especially if the automatic screen clear
    feature has been disabled.
                                                                              17


    You can also protect your computer by using a password on the screen save
    feature.  This will help ensure that your computer isn't used when it is
    left unattended while in MAXimize.  Once the screen save feature is
    activated, this password (or the creator password) is required to reenter
    MAXimize.  To use this security, press Alt+W P or the Ctrl+F10 short cut key
    and then enter the password to use.


    Input Prompts
    =============

    The Input prompt window is displayed when prompting for a single line of
    text input.  It is used for all selection text input requests.  The window
    will appear near the bottom of your screen.  The top line of the window will
    contain a message suggesting what you should enter as input.  The input line
    may be blank or contain a default value.  You may then enter or change the
    input using the keys described in the editing keys section.  In addition,
    you may use the following keys to display and change previous input to this
    window:

                Key:         Action:
                -----------  -----------------------------
                Up arrow     Get previous input in buffer.
                Down arrow   Get next input in buffer.
                PgUp         Get oldest input in buffer.
                PgDn         Get newest input in buffer.

    Each time you enter input into this window, it is added to an input "buffer"
    of 500 characters in length.  This buffer will contain multiple input
    responses. Once the buffer becomes full, the oldest input(s) is removed as
    new input is entered.  By using the up arrow, down arrow, PgUp and PgDn
    keys, you can scroll through prior inputs.  Once you have located the
    desired input, you may modify it (if need be) and then hit Enter.

    For example, select "Set volume label" on the MAXimize SAMPLES menu. The
    input prompt window will pop-up at the bottom of your screen:

    ++ Please enter parameters for Set volume label: +-------------------------+
    |                                                                          |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    |            < OK >             < Cancel >             < Help >            |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+

    Then enter a label such as MyDisk.  Choose this selection several times,
    each time entering a different label. Now, choose this selection one last
    time.  Instead of entering a label, use the up arrow key to display the
    prior ones.  Be sure to try each of the editing keys listed previously.
                                                                              18

    Quitting MAXimize
    =================

    To leave MAXimize press Alt+F X or the F9 short cut key.


    Advanced Topics
    ===============

    This section covers topics related to using the menus that are not required
    reading.  You should be comfortable with the prior sections of chapter 1
    before proceeding.  You should read those topics below that you have an
    interest in.  For example, if you have a mouse installed, you will probably
    be interested in reading the next section.


    Using a Mouse
    =============

    A mouse is a hand operated pointing device that can be attached to your
    computer.  The mouse has up to three buttons that the computer can sense are
    being depressed.   MAXimize will use the right and left buttons only.  When
    MAXimize is first started, the mouse will not appear.  To use the mouse,
    simply roll the mouse across your mouse pad or desk top and the mouse will
    appear on the screen as a square box.  If the mouse does not appear, either
    your options have been set to disable it or the mouse has not been installed
    correctly.

    Before explaining how to use your mouse, the following terminology should be
    understood:

      Pointer........The square box that is displayed when you move the mouse.
      Point..........Move the mouse across your desk until the mouse pointer is
                     on a specific area of the screen (usually within a
                     selection's description).
      Release........Let up on the mouse button.
      Click..........Quickly press and release the left button.
      Double-Click ..Click to highlight the selection and then click again.
      Drag...........Hold the left button down on a specific area and then drag
                     it around the screen by rolling your mouse across the
                     desk.

    The mouse can be used to do the following:

      > Choose a selection from a menu.  Point to the selection.  Then for
        menus where a help message MAY be defined, double click to choose it.
        Otherwise, a click will choose the selection.  NOTE: If item is already
        highlighted, a single click will select the item.

      > Move the selection bar.  You can drag the selection bar from one
        selection to another.

      >      >      > Display a previous menu.  For cascaded menus, you may return to a
        previous menu simply by clicking on its window.
                                                                              19

      > Press the escape key.  Quickly press and release the right button to
        escape (just as if the Esc key had been pressed).

      > Select keys shown in the status line.  Point to the key in the status
        line and click.  For example, the status line may have F1=Help.
        Clicking on this will cause the F1 key to be entered as if you pressed
        it on the keyboard.

      > Move the text cursor within or to another field.  Point to where the
        text cursor should be located and  click.

      > Toggle a setting on or off.  Point to the toggle and click.  If the
        toggle was off it will be turned on and visa versa.

      > Select an item in a list.  Point to the item and click.  A dot will be
        placed in the parenthesis that are to the left of the item.

      > Depress a Button.  Point to the button and click.  The action
        associated to the button is done.


    For windows with vertical or horizontal scroll bars:

      > Move the selection bar.  Click on the window borders.  Click on the top
        border to move up, the bottom border to move down, the left border to
        move left and the right corners to move right.

      > Scroll the window.  Click on the arrow icons to scroll the window in
        the direction of the arrow icon.

      > Page up or down.  Click on the scroll bar above the scroll box to page
        up and below the scroll box to page down.

      > Change location of selection bar or text cursor.  Drag the scroll box
        to the desired percentage into the menu/text and release.  The
        selection bar text cursor will be placed accordingly.  For example,
        dragging the scroll box to the middle of the scroll bar will place the
        selection bar on the middle selection.


    Hot Keys
    ========

    Hot keys allow you to invoke applications without having to navigate to a
    menu to choose the desired selection.  This is particularly useful for often
    used applications, such as an editor.  To view the menu of hot keys press
    Alt+F H or the F7 short cut key from any menu in the main window.  The
    following is the hot keys menu:
                                                                              20

      File  Edit  Options  Window  Help

     +------------------------------+ Main Menu +-----------------------------+
     |+-------------------------------+ Hot Keys +-----------------------------+
     ||                                                                        |
     ||                                                                        |
     ||       Ctrl+A Alter DOS PATH               Ctrl+N                       |
     ||       Ctrl+B                              Ctrl+O Print order form      |
     ||       Ctrl+C                              Ctrl+P                       |
     ||       Ctrl+D                              Ctrl+Q                       |
     ||       Ctrl+E                              Ctrl+R                       |
     ||       Ctrl+F                              Ctrl+S                       |
     ||       Ctrl+G                              Ctrl+T                       |
     ||       Ctrl+H                              Ctrl+U                       |
     ||       Ctrl+I                              Ctrl+V                       |
     ||       Ctrl+J                              Ctrl+W                       |
     ||       Ctrl+K                              Ctrl+X                       |
     ||       Ctrl+L                              Ctrl+Y                       |
     ||       Ctrl+M                              Ctrl+Z                       |
     ||                                                                        |
     +|                                                                        |
      +------------------------------------------------------------------------+

    MAXimize  +=Select_Item  ^v><=Next_Item  Alt=Actions  09:38pm  30OCT92



    The hot key selection IDs are Ctrl+? (where ? is A through Z).  To choose a
    hot key simply hold down the Ctrl key while pressing the desired letter (ex.
    E for edit).  This can be done even when the hot key menu is not displayed!
    If you define your editor as Ctrl+E, it can easily be invoke by pressing
    Ctrl+E even when the hot keys menu is not displayed.

    If a hot key lacks a description (as Ctrl+B above), it has not been defined
    and has no action.  To define a hot key or update it, follow the section on
    updating a selection.  To leave the hot keys menu press Esc.

    There are a few minor conflicts between the hot keys and the keys on your
    keyboard.  These conflicts occur when the hot key has the same internal
    representation as another key.  These conflicts are:

                     Hot Key:  Same as:
                     --------  ----------
                     Ctrl+H    Backspace
                     Ctrl+I    Tab
                     Ctrl+M    Enter
                     Ctrl+C    Ctrl+Break
                     Ctrl+J    Ctrl+Enter

    MAXimize can handle the first three in this list by detecting that the Ctrl
    key is depressed.  However, the last two appear to be the same keystroke and
    will always cause the hot key to be selected.  If this is a problem, do not
    use these hot keys.

    Try using the hot keys while they are NOT displayed.  First display the main
    menu by pressing \ and then enter Ctrl+A.  This will display the current DOS
                                                                              21

    PATH and allow you to modify it.  You may modify the DOS PATH by adding a
    directory at the end of the PATH and pressing the Enter key.  Otherwise,
    simply press Esc to abort the execution of this selection.


    Invoking MAXimize with Parameters
    =================================

    When invoking MAXimize, you may include parameters.  For example, if you
    would like to start at a menu other than the main menu, follow MAX or MENU
    with the menu name to start at.  The following switches are optional:

      /B   Initialize the colors to have black backgrounds.  Sets colors for
           screens that cannot display them (like monochrome screens).

      /K   Are keys to be entered after MAXimize starts (as if they were entered
           from the keyboard).  This allows selections to be invoked when
           starting MAXimize (especially from an AUTOEXEC.BAT file).  Hot keys
           are represented by the @ sign followed by the desired key (ex. @A is
           Ctrl+A).  Use @@ to represent a single @ sign.

      /A   Is an alternate main menu.  This overrides the main menu defined in
           the options.  This could be used in combination with the SESSION.BAT
           file from a task switcher to cause each session to have a different
           main menu.

      /Q   Disables quitting from MAXimize and the DOS shell functions.  This
           feature would be used when you do not want the users of MAXimize to
           use the DOS prompt.  This switch will disable the Esc key quitting
           when the user is viewing the main menu, the F9 key quitting, a
           selection quitting, and the F8 key shelling to the DOS prompt.

      /M   The batch file used to invoke MAX.  This switch must be used only
           when MAX has been invoked by a batch file.

      /U   The user ID to use for a shared PC or LAN support.  This allows for
           multiple users with different configurations to run off the same copy
           of MAXimize on a single PC.  Also, it provides for multiple users to
           run off the same copy of MAXimize on a LAN.  The default for this
           switch is MAXIMIZE.  Environment variable ID can be set instead of
           specifying this switch. Please refer to Appendix C, for more
           information on this.

    For example, to display the SAMPLES menu and then cause the keys "A", Ctrl+C
    and "@" to be entered:

       C> CHDIR  \MAX
       C> MENU  SAMPLES  /KA@C@@


    Using MAXimize with a Task Switcher
    ===================================

    One capability you may want to combine with MAXimize is the ability to
    switch between several tasks.  For example, you may want to switch between
    your word processor and spread sheet programs without leaving either.  There
                                                                              22

    is a number of task switching type software on the market.  From the lowly
    DOSSHELL provided with DOS 5.0, to Software Carousel, Microsoft's Windows
    3.1 and IBM's OS/2 2.0.  Any one of which allows you to switch between
    multiple DOS applications without exiting any of them.

    Merging MAXimize with these task switchers provides you with the best of
    both.  MAXimize will fill the short-comings in these task switchers (namely,
    a great DOS menu), while the task switcher allows you to switch between
    multiple tasks.  All you have to do is set the task switcher to invoke
    sessions of MAXimize.  Then from each session, either the desired MAXimize
    selection can be chosen automatically or the user can select what they want
    to do.  Finally, the user simply switches between the sessions of MAXimize
    using the task switcher to bounce between their tasks (word processor,
    spread sheet, utilities, etc.)

    To add MAXimize sessions to your task switcher you will need to add a
    selection (program item in the DOSSHELL) for each session.  Define the
    selection with:

      1. An appropriate program title (eq. "MAXimize session 1" or "Word
         Processing Task")

      2. A command of "SESSION.BAT  ?  [parameters]",  where the question mark
         should be replaced with the session identifier (an alpha-numeric, one
         digit ID) and "[parameters] "are any valid parameters of MAX.EXE.  The
         following parameters are of particular interest:

         /Amain    -to define a different main menu for this session than the
                    other sessions
         /Q        -to disallow quitting and shelling to DOS from this session
         /Uuserid  -to have different options (like colors) for each session,
                    use a different user ID.
         /Kkeys    -to cause a selection to execute when a session starts (like
                    the word processing selection for the "Word processing
                    session").

      3. A startup directory of the one MAXimize was installed in (eq. C:\MAX)

      4. Provide as much conventionally memory as needed by the application.
         Generally, you should specify as much as your computer can provide.
         For example, about 550k can be specified with the DOSSHELL on a machine
         with 2MB of RAM.  At a minimum, supply at least 192k for MAXimize if no
         updating of the setup is to be done in this session.  If you want to
         update MAXimize's setup in this session, supply at least 384k.

    The result of combining a task switcher with MAXimize is a powerful DOS menu
    environment that allows you to switch between the programs you have invoked
    without having to leave them.  This is truly the best of both worlds.  Even
    if you have DOS 5.0, you can use the DOSSHELL as a task switcher.  If you
    find this capability useful, you may then want to look into purchasing
    another task switcher.
                                                                              23


    Go To DOS
    =========

    If you want to suspend MAXimize and enter commands at the DOS prompt, press
    Alt+F D or the F8 short cut key.  This will display the DOS prompt and allow
    you to enter any number of commands.  To return to MAXimize, do NOT invoke
    it.  Instead, type EXIT at the DOS prompt and press Enter.  This will return
    you to MAXimize where it was suspended.
                                                                              24

    Chapter 2: Modifying Menus
    ==========================

    Overview
    ========

    This chapter discusses the modification of "user" menus and their
    selections. These user menus are those menus that appear in the main (large)
    window, including the main menu, any sub-menus below it and the hot keys.
    The modification of hot keys should be treated the same as selections.
    Differences, if any, will be noted.

    When changing a menu or the hot keys be sure to back these files up (as with
    any other files on your computer).  You may use the DOS COPY/BACKUP command
    or any of several backup facilities on the market.

    Menu modification can be split into two categories:  modifying
    characteristics of the menu and modifying selections.  The former refers to
    items specific to the menu and all of its selections, such as the menu title
    and password.  The latter refers to adding, deleting, updating and other
    modifications to a specific selection(s).  Notice, there is no mention of
    adding or deleting a sub-menu.  This is done through the adding/deleting of
    a selection. For example, to add a sub-menu to an existing menu, simply add
    a selection and enter the name of the new/existing sub-menu.  To delete a
    sub-menu, simply delete the selection that displays it.

    Updating a menu or selection always follows this sequence:

      1. Display the menu to be changed.  Simply choose the normal selection(s)
         from the user menus until the desired menu is displayed as explained in
         chapter 1.  To display the hot keys, press the F7 key.

      2. If selections are to be modified, then mark the selection(s).  To
         modify one selection, simply highlight it with the selection bar.  To
         modify multiple selections, mark them using the space bar.

      3. Display the edit drop down menu by pressing Alt+E.

      4. Now choose the desired operation: add, update, delete, copy or transfer
         (move) selection(s).  Or choose menu to modify the menu
         characteristics.    If there is a setup password, you will have to
         enter it at this point.

      5. Follow the directions for the specific operation you chose.

    The setup password prompt in step 4 and/or the slight delay caused by the
    setup program load may become annoying especially when doing multiple
    operations.  If this happens, you may want to use the Update Mode, which
    will be discussed in the next chapter.
                                                                              25

    Marking Selection(s)
    ====================

    After displaying the desired menu, you must then mark the selection(s) to be
    modified.  If only one selection is to be changed, then highlight it by
    positioning the selection bar on it.  It you want to modify several
    selections on ONE menu with a single operation (like update), then you must
    first mark those selections.

    To mark selections, position the selection bar on them and press the space
    bar. A check mark will be placed to the left of the selection indicating it
    has been marked.  The selection bar will then be moved to the next
    selection.  You may mark as many selections as desired by repeatedly
    pressing the space bar. To mark all the selections on a menu, simply press
    Alt+E L or hold down the Ctrl key and press the right arrow short cut key.
    Choosing a selection or leaving the menu will automatically remove the marks
    from the selections.

    To remove a mark on a selection, again position the selection bar on the
    selection and press the space bar.  The check mark will disappear.  Thus,
    the space bar will toggle the check mark on and off.  To remove all marks,
    press Alt+E E or hold down the Ctrl key and press the left arrow short cut
    key.


    Selection Formats (Types)
    =========================

    MAXimize has the following selection formats that determine what the
    selection can do:

       > Run a single program, command or batch file
       > Display a new or existing menu

    When you add a selection or update an empty hot key (no description), you
    must decide what format (from above) to use.  Then based on the format, one
    of the selection update screens is displayed.  When you update a selection,
    MAXimize determines the proper format and displays the appropriate update
    screen.

    Next, each selection format and its associated update window will be
    covered. This includes a description of the fields within the selection
    update windows and how MAXimize processes that type of selection.


    Run a Program, Command or Batch File
    ====================================

    This type of selection is used when running a single program, command or
    batch file.  The selection update window will look like the following:
                                                                              26

    +----------+ Selection to run a program, command or batch file +-----------+
    |                                                                          |
    | Description:                                                             |
    |     Program:                                                             |
    |                                                                          |
    +-- Optional v ------------------------------------------------------------+
    |                                                                          |
    |  Parameters:                                                             |
    |    Track By:                                                             |
    |    Password:                                                             |
    |                                                                          |
    |   [ ] Pause after program runs           [ ] Input program parameters    |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    |            < OK >             < Cancel >             < Help >            |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+

      Description  is the text shown on the menu and describes what the
                   selection does.  This is a required field.

      Program      is the program, command or batch file to run.  Simply enter
                   what you normally enter at the DOS prompt up to the first
                   blank (anything after the first blank is parameters).  This
                   file does not have to be fully qualified (that is, include
                   the drive and directory in the file name).  MAXimize will
                   automatically search your hard disk(s) to find it if it is
                   not fully qualified. This is a required field.

      Parameters   are the parameters passed to the program, command or batch
                   file. If your program is "VIEW" and your parameter is
                   "C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT", then the resulting command would be "VIEW
                   C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT".

      Track By     Is the unique identification to use for this selection when
                   usage logging is desired.  Normally the program name being
                   ran is specified here.  This value is also used for the
                   license control process.  Please review the chapter on
                   Controlling and Monitoring Access for more information.

      Password     protects the selection.  Before the selection can be executed
                   or altered this password must be entered.  Also, the
                   selection will be encoded in the menu file stored on disk
                   when password protected.  If this field is blank, the
                   selection will not be protected.

      Pause after program runs [ ]

                   When this toggle is on, the selection will pause, using the
                   PAUSE DOS command, after running the selection.  This is
                   useful when the program or batch file does not pause.
                   Without the pause, anything written to the screen by the
                   program will be quickly replaced by MAXimize's screen.

      Input program parameters [ ]

                   When this toggle is on the selection will prompt the user to
                   enter/change the program parameters before passing them to
                                                                              27

                   the program.

    The description and program fields are required.  The remaining fields are
    optional.  MAXimize will process the selection in the following sequence:

       1. If a password is specified then MAXimize will request that it be
          entered.
       2. If the Input program parameters toggle is on, MAXimize will prompt
          for parameters to pass the program.  The text specified in the
          parameters will be the default.  The user may then modify or enter
          parameters.
       3. MAXimize will switch to the drive and directory where the program
          resides.
       4. Run the program with the parameters.  The parameters will be either
          from the prompt or as specified if not prompt was requested.
       5. If the pause toggle is on, then MAXimize will wait for any key stroke
          after the program runs and before displaying the current menu.


    Display a New or Existing Menu
    ==============================

    This type of selection is used to display a new or existing menu.  The
    selection update window will look like the following:

    +---------------------+ Selection to display a menu +----------------------+
    |                                                                          |
    | Description:                                                             |
    |                                                                          |
    |        Menu:                                                             |
    |                                                                          |
    |    Password:           (password is optional)                            |
    |                                                                          |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    |            < OK >             < Cancel >             < Help >            |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+


      Description is the text shown on the menu and describes what the
                  selection does.  The description cannot be blank.

      Menu        is the next menu to be displayed by the selection.  It must
                  conform to the standard DOS file name convention and may be
                  an existing or new menu name.  The menu name is also
                  required.  When a new menu name is entered, the menu
                  modification window will pop-up in the middle of the screen.
                  Follow the instructions for modifying menu characteristics.
                  Besides a menu name, you may specify the following:

                     {Main}   - will return to the main menu
                     {Keys}   - will display the hot keys
                     {Prior}  - will return to the previous menu

                  If the menu specified was displayed previously (in navigating
                  to the current menu), then MAXimize will return to this menu.
                                                                              28

      Password    protects the selection.  Before the selection can be executed
                  or altered this password must be entered.  Also, the
                  selection will be encoded in the menu file stored on disk
                  when password protected.  If this field is blank, the
                  selection will not be protected.

                  NOTE: This password will NOT protect a sub-menu displayed by
                  the selection! Instead, use the menu password to protect the
                  sub-menu.

    The description and menu name are required.  The remaining fields are
    optional.  MAXimize processes this type of selection in the following
    sequence:

        1.If a password is specified then MAXimize will request that it be
          entered.
        2.Display the menu specified.  If the menu is a new menu, than it will
          contain no selections at first.  You must then add selections to this
          sub-menu.  If the menu specified was displayed previously (in
          navigating to the current menu), then MAXimize will return to this
          menu.

    Update Menu Characteristics (Title, Password)
    =============================================

    Menu characteristics are those items that pertain to the menu and all of its
    selections as a group.  These items are the title of the menu and the
    password to protect the menu.  Items specific to a selection are not
    included.  Menu characteristics may not be modified for the hot keys menu.
    To modify a menu follow these steps:

    1. Display the menu to be modified.

    2. Press Alt+E U M the + short cut key.  The menu modification window will
       pop-up:

            +-----------------+ Menu name: SAMPLES +------------------+
            |                                                         |
            |    Title: MAXimize Samples                              |
            |                                                         |
            | Password:           (password is optional)              |
            |                                                         |
            +---------------------------------------------------------+
            |        < OK >        < Cancel >        < Help >         |
            +---------------------------------------------------------+


      The title line of the menu modification window contains the menu name (in
      the example above it is Samples).  The window contains these fields:

       Title    is a description of the contents of the menu.  For example,
                "Games" might be the title of a menu containing selections that
                invoke games.  This title is displayed in the middle of the
                menu's top border line.  If this field is blank, the menu will
                have no title.
                                                                              29

       Password protects the menu and its selections.  Before the menu is
                displayed, this password must be entered.  This protects the
                menu and its selections from being altered since the menu must
                first be displayed before it can be altered.  The menu file
                stored on disk will be encoded when password protected.  If this
                is blank, the menu is not  protected.

                NOTE: Do not password protect the main menu.  Instead, use the
                "entry" password in the options or password protect the
                selections.

    4. Modify or fill in the desired fields.  Use the Tab, Shift+Tab and arrow
       keys to move the cursor between the fields.

    5. Press the OK button or the Enter key to accept the modifications.  Press
       the cancel button or Esc key to cancel any changes.


    Add a Selection / Sub-Menu
    ==========================

    The main purpose of a selection is to invoke a program/command/batch file
    and/or display a sub-menu.  If the sub-menu to be displayed is new, then it
    will be added.  You may add up to 99 selections to a menu  Remember,
    selections cannot be added to the hot keys menu.  To add a selection follow
    these steps:

    1. Display the menu where the selection is to be added.

    2. If menu contains selections, move selection bar to where new selection is
       to be added.

    3. Press Alt+E A or the Insert short cut key and the "add" window will
       appear:

                +----------------+ Add Selection +-----------------+
                |                                                  |
                |  Where: (_) After highlighted selection          |
                |         ( ) Before highlighted selection         |
                |                                                  |
                | Format: (_) Run a program, command or batch file |
                |         ( ) Display a new or existing menu       |
                |                                                  |
                +--------------------------------------------------+
                |      < OK >       < Cancel >       < Help >      |
                +--------------------------------------------------+


    4. The "add" window allows you to choose where to add a selection and the
       format of the selection.  Reply A to add after, or B to add before the
       selection highlighted by the selection bar.  Note: If the menu currently
       lacks selections, then the location is not significant and this is
       ignored.

       Next, you must choose the format of the selection.  This is a decision
       on what the selection will do:
                                                                              30


         >  Run a single program, command of batch file
         >  Display a new or existing menu

       Press R or D for the desired format and then press Enter to continue.

    5. A selection window based on the specified format type will be displayed.
       The description of these windows and the fields they contain were
       presented in the overview at the start of this chapter.

    6. Fill in the desired fields.  Use the Tab, Shift+Tab and arrow keys to
       move the cursor between and within the fields.

    7. When the selection is complete, press the OK button or the Enter key to
       accept the selection.  Press the cancel button or the Esc key to cancel
       the selection add.


    Add a Selection Exercises
    -------------------------

    Let's add a selection at the bottom of the main menu.  Follow these steps:

    1. Display the last selection on the main menu by typing \ and then the End
       key.

    2. Type Alt+E A A D for add a selection that displays a menu after the
       current selection.  Then press the Enter key to continue.  The selection
       update window for a sub-menu will be displayed.

    3. Type a description of "Add selection exercise".

    4. Using the Tab key, position the cursor in Sub-menu.  Type a sub-menu name
       of "SAMPADD".

    5. Press the Enter key to accept the selection.

    6. The menu modification window will appear.  Type a title of "Add selection
       exercise".

    7. Press the Enter key again to accept the menu modification.

    8. A selection has been added to the main menu that displays a sub-menu.
       Choose this new selection.  The SAMPADD menu will be displayed, with no
       selections.



    Let's add another selection, this time to the SAMPADD menu just added and
    displayed above.

    1. Press the Alt+E A R keys to add a selection that runs a program, command
       or batch file.  Then press the Enter key to continue .

    2. Type a description of "Directory display".
                                                                              31

    3. Press the Tab to position the cursor within the program field.  Then type
       a program name of "DIR".

    4. Press the Alt+A to position the cursor in the "parameters" field.  Type a
       parameter of "/P".

    5. Press the down arrow key until the cursor is in the pause toggle field.
       Now press the space bar to turn the pause toggle on.

    6. Hit the Enter key to accept the selection.

    7. You have now added a selection that will display the contents of the
       current directory (DIR /P).  After the directory is displayed, the
       computer pauses until you've pressed a key.  Try running this selection.


    Update a Selection
    ==================

    All of the fields in a selection may be updated.  This allows for the
    correction or improvement of a selection added previously.  Undefined hot
    keys (those that have no description) may be defined through the update
    process.  To update a selection follow these steps:

    1. Display the menu containing the selection to be updated or display the
       hot keys by pressing the F7 key.

    2. Mark the selection(s) to be updated.  For single selections, position the
       selection bar on the selection to be updated.  For multiple selections,
       use the space bar to mark them.

    3. Press Alt+E U S or the equal (=) short cut key to update the
       selection(s).

    4. If you are updating an empty hot key (no description), then you must
       choose the format of the selection.  This is a decision on what the
       selection will do:

           > Run a single program, command of batch file
           > Display a new or existing menu

       Press R or D for the desired format.

    5. One of the selection update windows will appear on your screen (depending
       on the selection format).  These selection update windows and their
       fields were covered earlier in the overview section of this chapter.
       These are the same windows used to add a selection, except the fields are
       not blank.

    6. Modify the desired fields.

    7. When the changes are complete, press the OK button or the Enter key to
       accept the selection.  To cancel the selection update press the Cancel
       button or the Esc key.
                                                                              32

    Update Selection Exercise
    -------------------------

    Let's update the directory display selection added previously in the add
    selection exercise.  Follow these steps:

    1. Display the SAMPADD menu and position the selection bar on the "Directory
       display" selection.  Then type = to update the selection.

    2. Using the down arrow key, position the cursor on the parameters field and
       change "/P" to "/W"

    3. Hit the Enter key to accept the change.

    4. Choose the updated selection.  You will notice that the directory display
       is now "compressed".  That is, it displays only the file names and wraps
       them across the screen.


    Copy or Transfer a Selection
    ============================

    Copying a selection results in a duplicate selection in another location.
    Transferring a selection results in the selection being moved to a new
    location. To copy/transfer a selection follow these steps:

    1. Display the menu containing the desired selection or display the hot keys
       by pressing the F7 key.

    2. Mark the selection(s) to be copied or transferred.  For a single
       selection, position the selection bar on the desired selection.  To copy
       or transfer multiple selections, use the space bar to mark them.  Note,
       only one selection can be copied or transferred to the hot keys at a
       time.

    3. To copy a selection press Alt+E C  or the Ctrl+Insert short cut key.  To
       transfer a selection press Alt+E T or the Ctrl+Delete short cut key.

    4. You must now locate where the selection(s) is to be copied or
       transferred. While in this "find" mode, "Copy:" or "Transfer:" will
       appear in the lower left corner of the screen.  You may choose only those
       selections that display sub-menus.  Also, you should use the normal
       navigation keys (\, Esc, F7) to move between menus.  To abort the copy or
       transfer, press the F9 key.

    5. Once the menu to receive the selections has been displayed, place the
       selection bar where the selection(s) should be inserted or on the
       selection to be replaced.  Note, if the menu currently lacks selections,
       then there is no need to position the selection bar.

    6. Press slash (/) to continue.

    7. If the menu already had selections, you may choose to insert the
       selection before or after the current selection or to replace it.  NOTE:
       When copying or transferring to the hot keys, you are forced to select
       "replace", since selections cannot be inserted into them.
                                                                              33


    8. If you choose to replace a selection that displays a sub-menu, you will
       then have to choose whether to delete this sub-menu.


    Copy/Transfer a Selection Exercises
    -----------------------------------

    Copy the first selection from the main menu to the SAMPADD menu (added
    previously in add selection exercise).  Follow these steps:

    1. Display the first selection on the main menu by typing \ and then the
       Home key.  Press Alt+E C to copy this selection.

    2. Choose "Add selection exercise" to display the SAMPADD menu.

    3. Type /B to copy the selection before the first selection on the SAMPADD
       menu.


    Follow these steps to copy from the hot keys menu to the SAMPADD menu:

    1. Display the hot keys menu by pressing F7.  Position the selection bar on
       the hot key to be copied (for example, Ctrl+A).  Press short cut key
       Ctrl+Insert to copy the selection.

    2. Display the SAMPADD menu by typing \ and then choosing "Add selection
       exercise".

    3. Position the selection bar on the first selection (copied previously from
       the main menu).  Then press /R to replace the first selection with the
       hot key being copied.

    4. The selection being replaced may display a sub-menu.  If so, you will
       need to select "No" so this sub-menu is not deleted.


    Transfer first selection from the SAMPADD menu to a hot key.  Follow these
    steps:

    1. The selection bar should be positioned on the first selection of the
       SAMPADD menu.  Press Alt+E T to transfer this selection.

    2. Press F7 to display the hot keys menu.  Then position the selection bar
       on the hot key to be replaced (for example, Ctrl+Z).  The hot key chosen
       should not have a description (for this exercise).

    3. Type /R to replace the hot key with the selection being transferred.
       Note: the selection has been moved from the SAMPADD menu to the hot key.
                                                                              34

    Delete a Selection / Sub-Menu
    =============================

    Deleting a selection removes it from the menu.  Deleting a hot key causes
    the selection to be cleared but not removed.  When the selection displays a
    sub-menu, you may choose to delete the sub-menu.  To delete, follow these
    steps:

    1. Display the menu containing the selection to be deleted or display the
       hot keys by pressing the F7 key.

    2. Mark the selections to be deleted.  To mark a single selection, position
       the selection bar on it.  Use the space bar to mark multiple selections
       to be deleted.

    3. To delete the selection press Alt+E D or the Delete short cut key.  Then
       depress the Delete button to confirm the deletion.

    4. If the selection(s) displays a sub-menu, then you will be asked if the
       sub-menu should be deleted.  Respond "Yes" to delete and "No" to leave
       the sub-menu.  Press the Esc key to abort the delete operation.

       CAUTION: If you choose to delete the sub-menu, be sure that no other
       selection also displays this sub-menu!  Also, sub-menus below the sub-
       menu being deleted are not deleted and will become orphans if no
       remaining selections display them.  If you delete only the selection, the
       sub-menu will become an orphan should no other selection display it.

       NOTE: An orphan menu is not displayed by any selection.

    Delete Selection/Menu Exercises
    -------------------------------

    Let's delete a selection on the SAMPADD menu (added previously in add
    selection section).  Follow these steps:

    1. Display the SAMPADD menu by typing \ to return to the main menu and then
       choose "Add selection exercise".

    2. Position the selection bar on the first selection and press the Delete
       key to delete the selection.

    3. Confirm the deletion by pressing Enter.


    To delete the selection on the main menu that displays the SAMPADD menu,
    follow these steps:

    1. Display the main menu by pressing \.

    2. Position the selection bar on "Add selection exercise" and press /D to
       delete this selection.

    3. Confirm the deletion by pressing Y.

    4. Type Y to delete the SAMPADD menu.
                                                                              35



    Advanced Topics
    ===============

    This section covers the more advanced topics relating to selections.  You
    should be comfortable with modifying the menus and selections before
    attempting this section.


    Selections that Return to Prior/Main Menu
    =========================================

    You may want to code selections that return to the previous or main menu.
    While this would duplicate the Esc and \ keys,  you might want to do this
    for novice users so they do not have to know these key strokes - they simply
    choose the appropriate selection.

    To create a selection that does this, add/update a selection and type a menu
    of:


                 Menu:          Action:
                 -------        ----------------------
                 {Prior}        Returns to prior menu.
                 {Main}         Returns to main menu.

    For an example of each of these, see the "Return to prior menu" and "Return
    to main menu" selections in the SAMPLES menu.


    Quit Selection
    ==============

    Besides having selection return to the main or prior menu, you may want a
    selection on the main menu that quits MAXimize.  This selection would
    duplicate the Alt+F X or the F9 short cut keys.  Again, you might want to do
    this for users who prefer to simply choose the appropriate selection.

    To create a selection that quits, first display the main menu (this type of
    selection must be on the main menu).  Then add a selection that displays a
    menu.  Type a description such as "Quit" and a menu name of "{Prior}".  When
    the user chooses this selection, MAXimize will quit since the main menu is
    displayed and no prior menu exists.


    Parameters and Prompt
    =====================

    When a program is invoked, it may need additional information.  The program
    may request this once it has started or may require that you provide this
    information as parameters.  An example of the latter is the DOS DIR command.
    This command allows for parameters such as /W.  For example, entering DIR /W
    at the DOS prompt will display the contents of the current directory across
    he screen.
                                                                              36

    MAXimize allows you to enter these parameters as part of a selection.  Also,
    MAXimize provides a "Input program parameters" toggle that indicates that
    the parameters may be entered or modified by the person choosing the
    selection.   The "Parameters" field and the "Input program parameters"
    toggle work together.  If you specify just parameters, then they are passed
    to the program.  If you turn on just the "Input program parameters" toggle,
    then MAXimize will request that the user type these parameters.  If you
    specify both, then MAXimize will allow the user to modify the parameters
    specified in the selection.


    Input Prompt Exercise
    ---------------------

    For example, add a selection as follows:

    1. Display the main menu by typing backslash (\).  Position selection bar at
       the bottom by pressing End.  Then type Insert and press Enter to
       continue.

    2. Type a description of "Prompt exercise".

    3. Enter a program of "CHKDSK"

    4. For parameters, use "C:".

    5. Turn on the Input program parameters toggle.

    6. Press Enter to accept the selection.

    7. Choose the selection.  You will be requested for the drive to check.
       Press Enter to accept the default of C: or type a different drive and
       press Enter. The drive will then be checked by the CHKDSK program.

    8. Delete the "Prompt exercise" selection by positioning the selection bar
       on it and pressing Delete.
                                                                              37

    Chapter 3: Customizing MAXimize - Options
    =========================================

    MAXimize has several options that allow you to customize it to your liking.
    These options include colors, passwords and more.  To inspect or change
    MAXimize's options press Alt+O for options.  The option drop down menu will
    be displayed at the top of your screen:

      File  Edit  Options  Window  Help
                 +---------------------+
     +-----------| Colors...           |in Menu +----------------------------+
     |+----------| Security... Ctrl+F5 |mize Samples +------------------------+
     ||          | Miscellaneous...    |                                      |
     ||          +---------------------+                                      |
     ||          | Reset...            |                                      |
     ||          +---------------------+                                      |
     ||          | Update Mode [ ]     | disk drive                           |
     ||          | User ID...          |ay volume label                       |
     ||          | Project...       F5 |olume label                           |
     ||          +---------------------+ersion                                |
     ||                          5 Date change                                |
     ||                          6 Time change                                |
     ||                          7 User-log menu                              |
     ||                          8 Return to main menu                        |
     ||                                                                       |
     ||                                                                       |
     ||                                                                       |
     ||                                                                       |
     +|                                                                       |
      +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

    MAXimize  +=Select_Item  ^v><=Next_Item  Alt=Actions  09:39pm  30OCT92



    You can then choose any of the items shown on the option menu.   Each is
    described in the following sections.


    Colors
    ======

    To change any of MAXimize's colors, follow these steps:

    1. Press C from the option drop down menu.  At the bottom of the screen, the
       "color" window will appear.  Above that will be the status line, the main
       window (that is smaller to allow for the color window) and at the top is
       the menu bar.  The screen will look like this:
                                                                              38


      File  Edit  Options  Window  Help

    +---------------------------+ MAXimize Samples +--------------------------+
    |                                                                         |
    |                           1 Check disk drive                            |
    |                           2 Display volume label                        |
    |                           3 Set volume label                            |
    |                           4 DOS version                                 |
    |                           5 Date change                                 |
    |                           6 Time change                                 |
    |                           7 User-log menu                               |
    |                           8 Return to main menu                         |
    |                                                                         |
    |                                                                         |
    +-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

    Colors: This is the status line.  F1=Help
    +---------------------------+ Color update window +-----------------------+
    | Main  Setup  Selection  Menu  Help  Prompt   Warning  Status  Wallpaper |
    +-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Use arrow keys to position on desired window above and then press Enter.|
    |                                                                         |
    |             < OK >              < Cancel >              < Help >        |
    +-------------------------------------------------------------------------+



    2. Choose the window or status line that you want to inspect/change the
       colors of.  Use the right/left arrows to move the selection bar to the
       desired window.  As the selection bar moves between the names of the
       windows, a sample of that window is displayed.  All the selection update
       windows are grouped together and the "general" setup menus are also
       grouped together. Once the selection bar is on the desired window or
       status line, press Enter or the down arrow key.

    3. The "change colors" window will then appear at the bottom of the screen:
                                                                              39

      File  Edit  Options  Window  Help

    +---------------------------+ MAXimize Samples +--------------------------+
    |                                                                         |
    |                           1 Check disk drive                            |
    |                           2 Display volume label                        |
    |                           3 Set volume label                            |
    |                           4 DOS version                                 |
    |                           5 Date change                                 |
    |                           6 Time change                                 |
    |                           7 User-log menu                               |
    |                           8 Return to main menu                         |
    |                                                                         |
    |                                                                         |
    +-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

    Colors: This is the status line.  F1=Help
    +----------------------+ Change colors - window items: +------------------+
    | Window/Border     Title     Normal     Highlight     Bar                |
    +-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | +- Background colors -+  +--------- Foreground colors ---------+ < OK > |
    | |   |[|]| | | | | |   |  |   | | | | | | |[|]| | | | | | | |   |        |
    | +-> 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 <-+  +-> A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P <-+< Help >|
    +-+ Position to item and then enter new background/foreground color code+-+



       The "change color" window contains the items within the chosen window
       that you can inspect/change the colors of.  It also contains a
       background and foreground color chart.  These charts show the various
       colors you may choose for the background (color behind the letters) and
       foreground (color of the letters).  Below the colors in the charts are
       the codes that correspond to that color.  Thus, "1" is a blue background
       and "O" is a yellow foreground. The background/foreground color of the
       current item will be enclosed in square brackets on the color charts.

    4. From the "change color" window, you should select the item you want to
       inspect/change the color of.  Use the right and left arrows to move the
       selection bar to the desired item.

    5. Now choose the desired colors for this item from the charts by pressing
       the color code corresponding to the desired background/foreground colors.
       For example, press "1" for a blue background and "O" for a yellow
       foreground.

    6. Repeat steps 4 and 5 above until you are satisfied with the colors of
       this window.

    7. When you are finished changing the colors for this window, press the
       Enter  or Esc keys to return to the "colors" menu.

    8. Repeat steps 2 through 7 for each window, until all windows are the
       desired colors.
                                                                              40

    9. Press the OK button (by pressing Allt+O) to accept the changes made to
       the colors.  Otherwise press the Cancel button or the Esc key to cancel
       the changes made.

      NOTE:  It is usually easier to determine the background color for a window
             first. Next change the background color of all the items for that
             window. Then change the foreground color of each item in the window
             as desired.




    Password Protection
    ===================

    Besides allowing menus and selections to be password protected, MAXimize
    allows for the following passwords:

    Creator    satisfies a prompt for any password.  It uniquely identifies the
               person who enters it as the installer of MAXimize.  With this
               password, any other password protection can be bypassed and
               changed.  Remember this password, it will be used later to
               determine forgotten passwords.

    Entry      protects entry into MAXimize.  It will be requested each time
               MAXimize is entered.  In this way MAXimize disallows
               unauthorized access.

    Quitting   protects leaving MAXimize.  This password must be entered each
               time an attempt is made to quit MAXimize and can be used to
               ensure that use of your computer is with MAXimize.

    Setup      protects the setup.  Whenever a slash (/) is pressed from a user
               menu or the hot keys menu, the first setup window appears.  From
               this window, you can change MAXimize's options, menus and
               selections.  This password prevents unauthorized use of these
               capabilities.  Before the first setup window is displayed, this
               password must be entered.

               NOTE: The setup password can become an irritant when doing
               massive updates to your menus and selections.  In this case, you
               should read the section on "Update Mode" in this chapter.

    Hide/Disable    Hide or disable items in the menu bar or the pull down
               menus.

    Log Violation   Logs security violations.  This will allow you to determine
               if someone is trying to use facilities they are not authorized
               for.  Choosing this selection will toggle violation logging on
               (X) or off.

               NOTE: MAXLOG.EXE allows you to view this log.
                                                                              41

    Encryption Key  encodes password protected menus and selections.  If an
               encryption keys is specified, then menus that are password
               protected (or that have password protected selections) cannot be
               used in other MAXimize systems that do not have the same
               encryption key.  If no encryption key is specified, then
               MAXimize will use the default.  In this case, other menu systems
               can bypass your password protection by entering their creator
               password.

    NOTE: Before changing the encryption key, be sure to remove all password
          protection of menus and selections.  Then change the encryption key
          and implement the password protection.

    To change any of the above passwords or the encryption key:

       Press S    1.         for security from the option drop down menu.                                             

       If a creator password has been entered previously, you will be requested    2.
       to enter it.  Thus, only the "creator" is allowed to inspect/modify
       these passwords.  The password menu will be displayed:

                              +----+ Security +------+
                              |  Creator password    |
                              |  Entry password      |
                              |  Quitting password   |
                              |  Setup password      |
                              +----------------------+
                              |  Hide/Disable        |
                              |  Log violations [ ]  |
                              |  Encryption Key      |
                              +----------------------+
                              |  < OK >    < Help >  |
                              +----------------------+

       Select the desired password or encryption key to change.  This will    3.
       display the input prompt window to allow you to change/enter the
       password.  To remove a password, either delete it or set it to blanks.

       In the case of Hide/Disable,                                   ,                                   , you must enter the codes of items to hide
       or disable instead of a password.  A lower case letter indicates the
       less powerful Hide function and an upper case letter indicates the more
       powerful Disable function.  Thus, a lower case "x" will hide the "DOS
       shell" but allow the F8 short cut key to shell to DOS.  An upper case
       "X" will not only hide the "DOS shell" but disallow the F8 short cut
       key.  An item without a short cut key is disabled when hidden (ie. there
       is no difference between hide and disable).  The following table shows
       the codes to type and the associated item hidden/disabled:

                Short
         Code:  cut key:  Item hidden or disabled:
         -----  --------  ------------------------------------------------
         K      F7        Hot key display
         X      F8, F9    DOS shell and exit
         E                Edit menu bar item and items in its pull down
                          menu
                                                                              42

         O                Options menu bar item and its pull down menu,
                          but doesn't disable items within the pull down
                          menu that have short cut keys
         D                Directory item in options pull down menu
         S      Ctrl+F5   Security item in options pull down menu
         R                Reset item in options pull down menu
         U                Update mode item in options pull down menu
         I                User ID item in options pull down menu
         P                Protect Clear item in window pull down menu


    4. When the desired passwords have been entered or changed, press the OK
       button or the Enter key to save the changes.  To cancel the changes press
       the Cancel button or the Esc key.

      NOTE:  All passwords can be the same.  This will have the effect of
             protecting with one password.


    Miscellaneous
    =============

    The remaining options are grouped together  under miscellaneous.  To  change
    the miscellaneous options,  press M from  the option drop  down menu.   This
    will display the miscellaneous options window below.  You may then Tab to  a
    field and modify it.  When you are finished press the OK button or the Enter
    key to accept  the changes  made.   To cancel  any changes  made, press  the
    Cancel button or the Esc key.

        +--------------------+ Miscellaneous options +---------------------+
        |                                                                  |
        | Show date, time and key status in status line?  (Y/N): Y         |
        |                                                                  |
        | Seconds to wait before screen blanked ..... (0=never): 180       |
        |                                                                  |
        | Mouse sensitivity .............. (1-99 or 0=no mouse): 8         |
        |                                                                  |
        +------------------------------------------------------------------+
        |          < OK >           < Cancel >           < Help >          |
        +------------------------------------------------------------------+


      Show date, time and key status in status line?  Should the current date,
      time and key status (Caps lock, insert/overwrite mode, Num lock, Ctrl and
      Alt) show up in the status line?  The valid choices are "Y" for yes or "N"
      for no. If you choose "N", then additional help will be displayed where
      the status information was.  Another use of "N" is to keep MAXimize from
      constantly updating the screen's status line.  This can be useful with
      some windowing software packages, such as main frame 3270 emulation.
                                                                              43

      Seconds to wait before screen blanked.  This is the number of seconds
      MAXimize waits for a response before clearing the screen.  Thus, if you
      get interrupted by a phone call, the characters currently on the screen
      will not get "burnt" into the screen.  The user can press any key to
      display the screen again.  Enter 0 to deactivate this option (that is,
      screen will not be cleared at all) or enter the number of seconds MAXimize
      should wait for a response before clearing the screen.

      Mouse sensitivity.  To turn your mouse on, set the sensitivity to a non-
      zero number (start at 8..  You may want to adjust the sensitivity based on
      your mouse and personal preference.  Smaller numbers are more sensitive
      than larger numbers.  To turn the mouse off, set the number to zero.  If
      you have no mouse, this option is ignored.


    Reset Options
    =============

    The reset selection in the options drop down menu allows you to reset your
    options to their original values (as shipped).  MAXimize will reset all of
    the options, except the passwords.  When you reset the options, you must
    choose whether the windows should have colored or black backgrounds.  The
    black background is mainly used for black and white monitors, but does use
    colors for the foreground letters (these are bland colors that work on all
    video tubes).


    Update Mode
    ===========

    You may need to change many selections on several menus using different
    operations (add, update, delete, etc.).  While making these changes, you may
    prefer to stay within the setup routine while you make your changes.  This
    would avoid having to enter the setup password repeatedly and the short
    delay associated with loading the setup program for each operation.  Update
    mode allows you to do just that - switch into the setup routine to make
    multiple changes.

    There are two methods you may use to enter this mode.  The first is to press
    Alt+O U while in MAXimize and the second is to invoke MAXSETUP.EXE (in the
    MAXimize directory) from the DOS prompt.  Both will put you into update
    mode.  However, the second method is provided for computers that do not have
    sufficient memory for MAXimize to load the setup program.  If you receive an
    insufficient memory message, then you must run MAXSETUP.EXE from the DOS
    prompt instead of using Alt+E or Alt+O U from within MAXimize.

    If you have established a setup password in the options, then no matter how
    you enter setup, the setup password must be provided first.  However, with
    the update mode, this is done once, instead of for each operation.

    Once you are in the update mode, you will see "Update Mode:" in the lower
    left corner of the screen.  You may only pick selections that display a sub-
    menu, in which case the sub-menu will be displayed.  To navigate to other
    menus use the same keys (Esc, \, F7, etc.) that you normally use.
                                                                              44

    To modify a menu or selection(s), follow the same instructions outlined
    earlier. That is: find the menu, mark selection(s), press Alt+E, choose the
    operation (ex. update), and then follow the instructions for the chosen
    operation.  When the operation is complete, you will be returned to update
    mode.  Repeat the above process until your modifications are complete.  To
    leave update mode, press Alt+O U.


    User ID
    =======

    The "User ID" selection on the option drop down menu allows you to change
    the setup (eq. colors) to those of another user.   Thus, multiple users can
    share the same MAXimize files and have different setups. Each user of
    MAXimize that wants a different setup should have a unique user ID.  A user
    who wants more than one setup may have multiple user IDs.  These user IDs
    must be valid DOS file names without an extension.  They can exceed 7
    characters in length, but the first 7 characters must be unique.  The
    default user ID is MAXIMIZE.

    To change the current user ID and its associated setup, simply press Alt+O I
    and enter the new user ID.  The setup will be changed to that of the new
    user ID and the main menu will be displayed.  Each user may then change the
    setup (eq. colors) to suit their preference, while running MAXimize from the
    same set of files.

    As an example of how this could be used, press Alt+O I and enter a user ID
    of your first name.  Then change the colors (in particular, the background
    color of the main window) as described earlier.  Now you should switch
    between the MAXIMIZE default user ID and your first name, by pressing Alt+O
    I and entering the user ID.  Note how MAXimize switches the colors when you
    switch the user IDs.  This can be done not just with the colors, but with
    any of the options.

    NOTE: Review the /U switch of MAX.EXE in chapter 1 under the section titled
    "Invoking MAXimize with Parameters".  This switch allows you to set the user
    ID when invoking MAXimize.  Also, you may set the ID environment variable to
    the desired user ID before invoking MAXimize.  This could be used to set the
    user ID in your AUTOEXEC.BAT file.


    Project
    =======

    The "Project" selection on the option drop down menu allows you to change
    the project you are using to track program usage by.  This allows you to
    keep track of what programs you used for a project and how much time you
    spent in those programs.  The current project will be displayed in the upper
    right hand corner of the screen.  You may click on this area, press Alt+O P
    or use the short cut key of F5 to enter or change the current project.
    Please review the chapter on Controlling and Monitoring Access for more
    information.
                                                                              45

    Chapter 4: Using MAXimize's Utilities
    =====================================

    This chapter contains information about the useful utilities included with
    MAXimize.  Some of these utilities are provided to enhance your batch files
    while the others work with the menus or options.


    Changing the Setup with MAXSETUP
    ================================

    The MAXSETUP program allows you to update MAXimize's menus, hot keys and
    options.  It is used by MAX when you update the setup or press Alt+O U, but
    can also be invoked from the DOS prompt.  You may need to invoke MAXSETUP
    from the DOS prompt if MAX displays error message 907 (insufficient memory)
    when you are updating the setup.  When MAXSETUP is invoked, it will put you
    into "Update Mode" which is described in Chapter 2.  The syntax for MAXSETUP
    is:

             MAXSETUP  [menu name]  [Switch(es)]

    The switches are:

      /B   Initialize the colors to have black backgrounds.  Sets colors for
           screens that cannot display them (like monochrome screens).

      /K   Are keys to be entered after MAXimize starts (as if they were entered
           from the keyboard).  This allows selections to be invoked when
           starting MAXimize (especially from an AUTOEXEC.BAT file).  Hot keys
           are represented by the @ sign followed by the desired key (ex. @A is
           Ctrl+A).  Use @@ to represent a single @ sign.


    Viewing a File's Contents
    =========================

    Included with MAXimize is a VIEW.EXE program that allows you to view the
    text in files.  This program is useful within batch files, selections and
    from the DOS prompt.  The syntax for VIEW is:

                    VIEW [Drive:][Directory]Filename[.Ext]

    The parameter past to view is the name of the file to be viewed.  If view is
    not given a file name or it is a question mark, then view will display a
    short copyright statement and syntax.  The drive is not required if the file
    is on the current drive.  The directory is not required if the file exists
    on the current directory for the specified drive.  The extension (Ext) is
    required if the file has an extension.  For example, to view your
    AUTOEXEC.BAT file enter:

       C>VIEW  C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT

    To change the colors of the view program, press the letter C.  Then use the
    following keys:
                                                                              46

          Key:     Action:
          ------   -------------------------------------------------
          Ctrl+F   changes the text foreground color
          Ctrl+B   changes the text background color
          Alt+F    changes the top and bottom line foreground colors
          Alt+B    changes the top and bottom line background colors

    As you press these keys, the view program will rotate through the available
    colors.  I would suggest that you pick the desired background colors first
    and then the foreground colors.  When you are finished with the colors,
    press the Esc key.  The view program will then ask you if the colors should
    be saved. Type Y to save the colors.

    If you have a program that produces a lot of text to the screen, causing the
    screen to scroll, you can use the DOS MORE filter.  Another approach would
    be to direct this output to a temporary file, view the file and then delete
    it.  This has the added benefit over MORE of allowing the user to page up
    and down through the text.  As an example, the DIR command's text could be
    viewed as follows:

             ECHO OFF
             DIR %1 %2 %3 %4 %5 %6 %7 %8 %9 > \tempfile
             VIEW \tempfile
             DEL \tempfile

    Notes:   VIEW.EXE should be in a directory that has been included in your
             DOS PATH.  Make sure MAXimize's directory is in the DOS PATH.


    Preventing Control Break and Reboot
    ===================================

    The NOBREAK.COM Terminate and Stay Resident (TSR) program allows you to
    prevent anyone from breaking out of a Batch file line AUTOEXEC.BAT or
    MAXimize.  The Ctrl+C and Ctrl+Break keys are disabled.  Also, the
    Ctrl+Alt+Del key is disabled as well to prevent reboot using this key
    combination.  This program would normally be invoked as part of you
    AUTOEXEC.BAT file.  The syntax for TYPEKEY is:

                    NOBREAK

    For example, you can include NOBREAK in your AUTOEXEC.BAT as below.  To use
    the minimum about of space, be sure to set all environment variables to null
    (delete them) and run NOBREAK from the root of your C drive.  This should
    result in the NOBREAK TSR using about 368 bytes!

      @SET PATH=
      @SET COMPSEC=
      @C:\NOBREAK.COM
      @SET COMSPEC=C:\COMMAND.COM
      .
      .

    Warning: NOBREAK disables Ctrl+C.  All programs, including MAXimize with its
             hot keys, will not be able to use Ctrl+C!
                                                                              47


    Delayed Execution of Commands
    =============================

    The WAITTILL.COM program allows you to delay the execution of commands
    within a batch file until a specified time of day or until a key is pressed.
    This can be useful for doing backups of your hard disk or to download from
    bulletin boards during the night.  The syntax for WAITTILL is:

                    WAITTILL [/Thh:mm:ss]  [message]

    The parameter past to WAITTILL is the time to wait till and a message to
    display while waiting.  If WAITTILL is not given any parameters it will
    clear the screen and wait for a key to be pressed.  The time may be
    turncated and should be specifed as in a 24:00 clock.  For example, to delay
    the execution of commands within a batch file until eight PM, the batch file
    would contain:

      @ECHO OFF
      WAITTILL /T20:00 Waiting until 8 PM to download files, press Esc to abort.
      IF ERRORLEVEL 1 GOTO STOP
      REM Place commands to run after this remark:
      .
      .
      .
      :STOP

    The user may abort the wait by pressing the Esc key.  This will return an
    ERRORLEVEL of 1.  Any other key stroke or when the specified time is reached
    will return an ERRORLEVEL of 0.


    Mouse Initialization
    ====================

    The FIXMOUSE.COM program will reset the mouse, leaving it in the proper
    state for MAXimize.  This program should be used after running a program
    from within a MAXimize selection that leaves the mouse in an improper state.
    FIXMOUSE will also tell you if the mouse is "FAST" (the mouse software must
    be at the Microsoft versioni 6 level).  FIXMOUSE has no parameters.
                                                                              48

    Chapter 5: Controlling and Monitoring Access
    ============================================

    This chapter contains general information about security features that
    control access to MAXimize, DOS and the setup (options, menus and
    selections).  The actual information on how to specify security passwords
    has been addressed in previous chapters.  Also covered in this chapter is
    the optional usage log and license control features.  The usage log allows
    you to monitor and report on which applications are being used by whom, for
    what project and for how long.  In addition, the usage log keeps track of
    security violations and rejected accesses.  The license control feature
    allows companies to purchase fewer copies of a software product then there
    are potential users, since MAXimize will ensure the number of concurrent
    users does not exceed the license agreement for that product.


    Security
    ========

    Forgotten Passwords
    ===================

    MAXimize has a very generous password protection system.  This allows for
    preventing unauthorized access and changes to MAXimize and its setup (menu,
    selection, setup, etc.).  Once this password protection is set, it may not
    be removed unless you either know the password or the Creator password.  The
    same is true when trying to view a menu or choose a selection that is
    password protected.  For this reason, it is very important to set the
    Creator password to identify you as the creator of MAXimize.  It is equally
    important not to forget it!

    If you forget a menu or selection password, you (that is the creator of
    MAXimize) may enter the Creator password instead.  The Creator password will
    always be accepted on any prompt for a password.  To determine what the menu
    password is, display and then modify the menu.  To determine what a
    selection's password is, update the selection.  In either case, you will
    need to enter the Creator password when requested for the menu/selection
    password (assuming you have forgotten it).  You may then view or modify the
    password through the normal menu/selection update window.


    Protecting MAXimize or DOS Access
    =================================

    You may prevent unauthorized access to MAXimize or to the DOS prompt once
    someone is in MAXimize.  These are accomplished by setting the Entry and
    Quitting passwords within the options.  In addition, if both of these are
    set, then once the person attempts to use MAXimize, they will not be allowed
    to quit until they have typed the Entry password.  This can be useful since
    it can prevent unauthorized access to your computer at startup.  To do this,
    include MAXimize in your AUTOEXEC.BAT file and set both an Entry and
    Quitting password (the same password can be used for both).  Then, when your
    computer is powered on, the Entry password must be enter before anyone can
    use your computer.  Also consider using the NOBREAK TSR provided.  This TSR
    will prevent the person from breaking out of your batch files, such as
    AUTOEXEC.BAT.
                                                                              49



    Preventing Unauthorized Changes
    ===============================

    MAXimize also prevents unauthorized changes to the setup (options, menus and
    selections) through the Setup password.  The Setup password is specified in
    the options and must be entered each time someone attempts to modify the
    setup.  This can become bothersome when doing multiple changes.  For this
    reason and to improve the speed of change operations on slower machines,
    MAXimize provides an Update mode.  This mode will prompt for the Setup
    password once, and then let you perform multiple change operations quickly.


    Securing an Unattended Computer
    ===============================

    You may secure an unattended computer from unauthorized access by specifying
    the Protect Clear password (press Alt+W P or the Ctrl+F10 short cut key).
    Then whenever you press Shift+F10 or the screen save feature occurs, your
    computer's screen will be cleared.  Anyone attempting to use the computer
    will then have to enter the Protect Clear password.  Thus, you can manually
    secure your computer by pressing Shift+F10 or allow MAXimize to do it
    automatically with the screen save feature.


    Protecting Menus and Selections
    ===============================

    MAXimize also allows each menu and selection to be password protected.  This
    password must be entered whenever the menu or selection is updated.  It is
    also required when an attempt is made to view the menu or the selection is
    chosen.  To protect a menu or selection, simply update or add the
    menu/selection and enter the password in the indicated field.

    NOTE:Password protecting a selection that displays a menu does not protect
         the menu.  Other selections could also display the menu or the person
         could start MAXimize giving it the unprotected menu.  Thus, this
         protection can be easily bypassed.  Therefore, use the menu password
         to protect menus.


    Selection Password Annoying
    ===========================

    Selection password protection can become bothersome for selections you
    repeatedly choose, since the password is requested each time.  As an
    alternative, group selections to be protected on a menu(s) and use the menu
    password.  Then, the password will be requested once when the menu is
    displayed as opposed to each time a selection is chosen.
                                                                              50

    Truly Securing MAXimize
    =======================

    To really secure your MAXimize system you need to specify your own
    Encryption Key and use the NOBREAK TSR.  The Encryption Key prevents someone
    from copying the menus to another computer and then using them.  It also
    prevents them from bypassing security on your computer (this is possible,
    but will not be discussed here for obvious reasons).  The Encryption Key
    encodes the menu files, thus preventing any possible attempt to use your
    menus or bypass your security.

    The NOBREAK TSR disables the Ctrl+Break, Ctrl+C and Ctrl+Alt+Delete keys.
    This will prevent anyone from intentionally or inadvertently breaking out of
    MAXimize while it is running a batch file and also prevents them from
    rebooting.  Without the NOBREAK TSR, it is possible for someone to break out
    of MAXimize and enter commands at the DOS prompt.


    Monitoring Access
    =================

    Whether you are a LAN administrator or own a computer in your home, you will
    probably be interested in knowing which applications are being used, when,
    by whom and for how long.  For example, lets say you installed a piece of
    shareware software (like a game for the kids).  Wouldn't it be nice to know
    that its being used frequently?  If it is, you would pay for it.  Otherwise
    you might consider removing it from your hard disk to save space.  For a
    business, this can be helpful in justifying the purchase of the software or
    additional software.  It can also be used to determine which persons used
    the software and for which projects.

    MAXimize allows you to generate a variety of summary reports.  For example,
    reports can be generate on how often someone runs any program or a specific
    program, for how long and for which project.  Reports can also be generated
    for all programs, or a specific program, showing  how often they are used,
    by whom, for which projects and for how long.  From these summary reports,
    you can easily tell who is using which programs and how often a program is
    used.

    In addition to the monitoring mentioned above, MAXimize allows you to
    monitor security violations as well.  Thus, you can easily determine if
    someone is attempting to violate your security by viewing the usage log.

    Finally, the usage log allows you to determine which programs are currently
    being used and by whom.  This is useful on LANs, particularly if you have
    purchased the optional license control feature.


    The Usage Log
    =============

    The usage log is a standard XBase database that MAXimize uses to keep track
    of who is using which programs, for which projects, at what time and for how
    long.  MAXimize also uses this database to log security violations and
    rejected accesses.  A rejected access occurs when the license control
    feature prevents someone from using a program because all copies are in use.
                                                                              51

    The name of the usage log database is MAXLOG.DBF and it should reside in the
    same directory as the MAXLOG.EXE program (except if you set the MAXDIR
    environment variable to the directory MAXLOG.DBF can be found in).  The
    format of the usage log database is:

       Field:        Length:  Description:
       ------------  -------  ---------------------------------------------
       Status        1        Status of entry:
                              I = In Use
                              U = Used
                              S = Security Violation
                              R = Rejected Access (license control feature)
       Userid        7        User ID of the person
       Project       8        Project they are working on
                              May be blank if user didn't set project
       Program       12       Program used or attempted to be used
       Start_Date    6        Date when the selection was chosen
                              Format = YYMMDD
       Start_Time    6        Time when the selection was chosen
                              Format = HHMMSS
       Used_Time     6        How long the selection was used
                              Format = HHMMSS

    Since the usage log is a standard XBase database, you can manipulate and
    generate reports using any standard XBase database program, such as DBase
    III+.  You  can also import it into many programs, such as spreadsheets.

    To view the usage log, simply run MAXLOG.EXE.  If you have the optional
    license control feature, you will have to select Usage log.  The usage log
    will be displayed in date/time sequence as follows:

         +===============================================================+
         | Userid   Project   Program         Date     Start   Time Used |
         +===============================================================+
         | DEREK    PROJECT1  WP.EXE        92/06/24  09:30:00  00:31:42 |
         | JANET    PROJECT2  Q.EXE         92/06/29  10:42:23  01:44:06 |
         | RYAN     PROJECT1  WP.EXE        92/06/29  11:00:00  03:40:25 |
         | RYAN     PROJECT2  Q.EXE         92/06/29  13:00:00  REJECTED |
         | DEREK    PROJECT1  WP.EXE        92/06/29  14:00:00  01:20:30 |
         | JANET    PROJECT2  WP.EXE        92/07/29  14:23:00  00:14:01 |
         | DEREK    PROJECT1  Q.EXE         92/07/30  08:15:20  04:20:12 |
         | JANET    PROJECT1  Q.EXE         92/07/30  08:40:16  02:22:10 |
         | RYAN     PROJECT1  BC.EXE        92/07/30  09:40:00  SECURITY |
         | JANET    PROJECT1  Q.EXE         92/07/30  13:20:00  03:14:15 |
         | RYAN     PROJECT1  WP.EXE        92/08/22  15:20:00   IN USE  |
         +===============================================================+
         | F1=Help  U=Set-Used     S=Sequence               ^v PgDn PgUp |
         | Q=Query  C=Clear-Query  R=Report                     ESC=Exit |
         +===============================================================+

    The number of records will be displayed just above the usage log window and
    to the right.  Use the up and down arrow keys to move the report one line at
    a time, the PgUp and PgDn keys to page through the report, and the Home and
    End keys to move to the top and bottom respectively.  Finally, press the Esc
    key to exit the usage log display.
                                                                              52

    The format of the date field is YY/MM/DD and the project the person was
    working on may be blank unless set by the person (see options).  Also, the
    time used may appear as:

         Time Used:   Description:
         ----------   -----------------------------------------------------
         HH:MM:SS     The amount of time the program was used
         In use       The person is currently using the program
         Security     The person attempted to violate security
         Rejected     The person's attempt to use the program was rejected
                      since the current number of users is equal to the
                      number of licenses purchased.  This applies only the
                      optional LAN license control feature.

    The program is actually the value specified in the Track By field of the
    selection.  Generally, this should be the program name.  However, for
    security violations, the program will be set to one of the following values
    to indicate what security the person attempted to violate:

     Program:      Person tried to:
     ------------  ---------------------------------------------------------
     PASSWORDS     set setup passwords but did not know Creator password
     SET ENTRY     set Entry password but didn't know prior one
     SET QUIT      set Quitting password but didn't know prior one
     SET SETUP     set Setup password but didn't know prior one
     SET SECURE    set PC Secure password but didn't know prior one
     SET CRYPT     set Encryption Key but didn't know prior one
     MAX ENTRY     enter MAXimize
     MAX QUIT      quit MAXimize
     MAX SHELL     shell out to DOS
     MAX SECURE    reenter MAXimize after screen cleared and PC secured, but
                   didn't know PC Secure password
     MAX SETUP     change the setup (options, menus or selections), but
                   didn't know Setup password
     Track By      run or update selection with the specified Track By
                   field, but didn't know its password
     Description   run or update selection with no Track By field. but
                   didn't know its password.  The selection description is
                   truncated to 12 characters and used as the program name.
     Menu name     tried to view a menu and didn't know its password


    Reducing the Data Viewed
    ========================

    The usage log can become too large for you to quickly find the data you are
    interested in by paging through it.  For example, you may want to find data
    for a specific program, such as WP.EXE, or a person with a user ID of JANET.
    Or perhaps you want to find specific data where both the user ID is JANET
    and the program is WP.EXE.  It would be difficult to scroll through 1,000
    lines to find them.  MAXimize solves this problem by providing the ability
    to Query, which allows you to quickly reduce the data being viewed to those
    of interest to you.  To query the usage log, press Q and the following
    window will appear:
                                                                              53

    +============================ Usage Log Query ============================+
    |        +--------------------                                            |
    | Status |     Programs In Use: Y              <- Enter Y to Include      |
    |        |       Programs Used: Y                 Enter N to Exclude      |
    |        |   Rejected Accesses: Y                                         |
    |        | Security Violations: Y                                         |
    |        +--------------------                                            |
    |          Only Include Userid: _______        <- Blank for ALL Userids   |
    |                                                                         |
    |         Only Include Project: ________       <- Blank for ALL Projects  |
    |                                                                         |
    |         Only Include Program: _____________  <- Blank for ALL Programs  |
    |                                                                         |
    |   Programs started From Date: 92/01/01       <- Use YY/MM/DD format     |
    |                         Time: 00:00:00          Use HH:MM:SS format     |
    |                                                                         |
    |                 Through Date: 92/08/24                                  |
    |                         Time: 23:59:59                                  |
    |                                                                         |
    | F1-Help                       ENTER=Done                     ESC=Cancel |
    +=========================================================================+

    The usage log query window allows you to specify the specific data you are
    interested in viewing or reporting.  Within this window you may specify
    which of the four status's you want to view (Programs In Use, Programs Used,
    Rejected Accesses and Security Violations).  Enter "Y" next to at least one
    status.  If you are interested in data for one user ID, program or project,
    you should specify this in the window. If you are interested in a specific
    date range, again specify this in the window.  When you are done specifying
    what to query on, press Enter to accept the query or Esc to cancel the
    query.  The number of records which satisfy the query will be displayed in
    the upper right corner.  You will then be returned to the usage log display
    which will show only data that satisfies the values you specified in the
    query.  To clear the query and again display all the usage log data, press
    C.

    Provided here is just a few examples of what the query capability can be
    used to determine:

     > what programs someone is currently using (specify their user ID and the
       Programs In Use status only).
     > all the programs that are currently being used (specify the Programs In
       Use status only).
     > what programs are still in use, but were started prior to today.
       (specify the Programs In Use status only and an end date or yesterday)
     > what programs were used for a project (specify the project)
     > what programs does a person use (specify the user ID and the Programs
       Used and Programs In Use status's only)
     > what security violations have occurred (specify the Security Violation
       status only)
     > which people and programs where rejected due to too few licenses
       (specify the Rejected Access status only)
                                                                              54

    Sequencing the Usage Log Data
    =============================

    The Usage log is sequenced (or ordered) by the start date and time.  You may
    want to change that sequence.  For example, you could sequence the data by
    user ID, program and start date/time.  This example would show the first, or
    primary, sequence to be user ID.  Within user ID the data would be ordered
    by program and for each person/program combination the data would be ordered
    by start date/time.

    To change the sequence of the data in the usage log display, press S and the
    following window will be displayed:

           +===================== Usage Log Sequence ==================+
           |                                                           |
           |    USERID     _      Enter 1 in the 1st sequence field,   |
           |                      2 in the 2nd sequence field, 3 in    |
           |    PROJECT    _      the 3rd sequence field, etc.  Leave  |
           |                      a field blank if you do not want to  |
           |    PROGRAM    _      include the field in the ordering    |
           |                      sequence.  Subtotals will be printed |
           |    DATE/TIME  _      for each field with a sequence number|
           |                      when using the report option.        |
           |    TIME USED  _                                           |
           |                      ENTER=Done                ESC=Cancel |
           +===========================================================+

    Then enter the desired sequence by placing 1 next to the first field to
    sequence, 2 next to the second field to sequence (within the first
    sequence), 3 next to the third sequence, etc.  Enter a blank next to any
    item which you do not want part of the sequence.  To sequence by user ID,
    program and start date/time, enter 1 next to user ID, 2 next to program and
    3 next to date.  Then blank out the project and time used fields.  Finally,
    press the Enter key to accept the sequence or Esc to cancel it.  The usage
    log will be displayed with the desired sequence.


    Set Program Used
    ================

    MAXimize will automatically keep track of which programs are currently being
    used.  As part of this process, MAXimize will set the program to the used
    status when it is exited.  The process consists of changing the status to
    "used" and filling in the amount of time the program was used.  However, it
    is possible for someone to accidentally prevent this process.  This
    generally occurs when the computer is powered off or rebooted before the
    program is exited.  You can easily determine if this has happened using the
    query facility mentioned previously.

    If you do not have the optional license control feature then the exposure is
    very small - the time the program was used will be 0 seconds.  This may
    effect summary reports of the usage log.  If the accuracy of these reports
    is important to you, then you should set these programs as used.  Of course,
    the sooner this is done, the more accurate the reports will be.
                                                                              55

    If you do have the optional license control feature and the program is
    registered in the license control database, the exposure is greater.  In
    addition to the summary report exposure mentioned above, one "copy" of the
    program is still marked as being in use that nobody else can use.  In this
    case, you will certainly want to set the program to used to allow someone
    else to use that copy of the program.

    There are two ways to set the used status for a program.  The first is to
    query the usage log for programs in use (specify the Programs In Use status
    only).  You may want to narrow this query further by specifying the program
    or user ID as well.  Then position the selection bar over the program to set
    to used and press U

    The second method is to use the /U switch which is explained later in the
    section titled "Periodic Maintenance to Databases".


    Usage Log Reports
    =================

    The information in the usage log can be the basis for some very useful
    reports.  The reports generated by MAXimize will always include summary
    information and can optionally include a detailed list of the data in the
    usage log.  The summary information includes the number of programs used and
    the total amount of time spent in those programs.  Also included are the
    number of security violations, rejected accesses and how many are currently
    in use.  The summary information above can be printed for each user ID,
    project, program, start date, or any combination of these.

    For example, a report could be created for the "RealBig" project showing for
    each person involved in that project, which programs they ran, how many
    times they ran the program and for how long.  Sub-totals are also shown for
    each person.  Finally, at the end of the report, grand totals are given for
    the entire project.  With this report, you can easily determine how much
    time each individual spent on a project and which programs were used most.

    To create a report, first query the usage log as outlined in the section
    titled "Reducing the Data Viewed".  Be sure to query just the data you want
    to report on.  This may be data for a specific person, project, program,
    date range, etc.  In the example above, you would set the query to view the
    "RealBig" project.  You may also want to exclude security violations,
    programs in use and rejected accesses by setting these status's to "N".

    After setting the query to view the desired data, you should set the proper
    sequence for the report.  This is described in the section titled
    "Sequencing the Usage Log Data".  Be sure to specify a sequence on only
    those fields you want summary information for.  This is important because
    MAXimize generates summary information for each field that is part of the
    sequence.  For summary reports (no detail), if there are no sequence fields
    then the report will summarize on user ID.  Also, summary reports will
    ignore Time Used if it was sequenced on.  Again using the example above, the
    sequence would be set to user ID (1) and program (2).  This will set the
    proper sequence and also generate summary information for each person as
    well as for each program used by that person.
                                                                              56

    At this point, the usage log display should contain the desired data for the
    report and have the proper sequence.  Now press R for report.  Then simply
    indicate whether the detailed records should be part of the report and the
    desired report destination (file/printer).

    A sample summary report is shown below.  This report is for user ID DEREK
    and is sequenced within user ID by project and then program.  Totals are
    generated for each sequence field and for the entire report:

                       Usage Log Summary Report                 Page: 1

            ----------------------------------------------------
            Userid   Project   Program          Time Used  Count
            ----------------------------------------------------
            DEREK    PROJECT1  Q.EXE             20:30:00     10
                               WP.EXE            26:01:12      6
                                             ------------  -----
                   DEREK, PROJECT1 Total -->     46:31:12     16

                     PROJECT2  QB.EXE            12:30:14      3
                               WP.EXE            03:00:21      1
                                             ------------  -----
                   DEREK, PROJECT2 Total -->     15:30:35      4

                                             ------------  -----
                             DEREK Total -->     62:01:47     20

                                             ------------  -----
                            Report Total -->     62:01:47     20


    Limiting License Usage
    ======================

    The license control feature may be purchased as part of the LAN version of
    MAXimize.  With this feature the LAN administrator can purchased fewer
    copies of a program than there are potential users of the program.  All the
    LAN administrator needs to do is register these programs within the license
    control database indicating the total number of licensed copies for each
    program.  Then MAXimize will ensure that the number of users that are
    concurrently using these programs does not exceed the number of licenses
    purchased.  This can result in considerable savings since it isn't necessary
    to purchase copies for everyone on the LAN.

    Not only will MAXimize prevent too many people from using a program, it will
    also keep track of the following for each program registered:

      > who is currently using them
      > the largest number of concurrent users
      > the current number of users
      > the total number of uses
      > the total number of user accesses rejected because there weren't enough
        copies available

    Using the above information, the LAN administrator can view or print reports
    that will tell them if they have purchased enough copies of a program.  This
                                                                              57

    can be determined by examining the largest number of concurrent users as
    well as the number of rejected accesses.  If more information is needed, the
    usage log contains who is using (or has used) the program as well as who and
    when someone has been rejected because there weren't enough licensed copies.
    Thus, MAXimize provides all the information and capabilities a LAN
    administrator needs to effectively and easily manage the licenses for
    programs.


    License Control
    ===============

    The license control database is a standard XBase database MAXimize uses to
    control the number of people that can use a program at once.  The usage log
    is also used for license control since it keeps track of who is using (and
    has used) a program.  In addition, all rejected accesses are recorded in the
    usage log.  The name of the license control database is MAXCHK.DBF and it
    should reside in the same directory as the MAXLOG.EXE program (except if you
    set the MAXDIR environment variable to the directory MAXCHK.DBF can be found
    in).  The format of the license control database is:

      Field:         Length:   Description:
      -------------  -------   -------------------------------------------
      Program        12        Program to control - matches selection's
                               Track By field.
      Maximum        3         Maximum concurrent users of the program
                               (number of licenses purchased)
      High_Water     3         Most users to have used the program
                               concurrently
      In_Use         3         The number of users currently using the
                               program
      Total_Used     4         The total number of times the program has
                               been used
      Total_Rejects  4         The number of times an access was rejected
                               because there weren't enough licenses
                               available.
      Reset Date     6         The date that the line was last modified.
                               This value can be changed by the LAN
                               administrator when the data is modified
                               (such as the totals being reset).  The
                               format of this date field is YY/MM/DD.
      Status         1         Status of license control:
                               *=Program execution disabled

    Since the license control database is a standard XBase database, you can
    manipulate and generate reports using any standard XBase database program,
    such as DBase III+.  You  can also import it into many programs, such as
    spreadsheets.

    To view the license control database, simply run MAXLOG.EXE and choose the
    License control selection.  The license control database will be displayed
    in program sequence as follows:
                                                                              58

         +===============================================================+
         |              Maximum   Most   Current  Total  Total    Reset  |
         | Program      In Use   In Use  In Use   Used  Rejects   Date   |
         +===============================================================+
         |*Q.EXE           20      15       3      95       0   92/08/17 |
         | WP.EXE          20      18      11     225      10   92/08/17 |
         |                                                               |
         |                                                               |
         |                                                               |
         |                                                               |
         |                                                               |
         |                                                               |
         |                                                               |
         |                                                               |
         +===============================================================+
         | F1=Help  A=Add     I=Show-In-Use                 ^v PgDn PgUp |
         | E=Edit   D=Delete  R=Report       *=Disabled        ESC: Exit |
         +===============================================================+

    Use the up and down arrow keys to move the report one line at a time, the
    PgUp and PgDn keys to page through the report, and the Home and End keys to
    move to the top and bottom respectively.  Finally, press the Esc key to exit
    the license control display.


    Add License Control
    ===================

    There are two steps needed to control the maximum number of people that can
    use a program concurrently.  First, set the Track By field for each
    selection that invokes the program to the program's name.  Then while
    viewing the license control database press A or the Insert key to add the
    program to this file.  In the window that appears, fill in the program's
    name and the maximum number of concurrent users allowed.  MAXimize will then
    ensure that this maximum does not get exceeded.

      NOTE:  The Track By field in the selection and the Program in the license
             control database do not have to be the program's name, but they
             must match each other.


    Edit License Control
    ====================

    After a program has been added to the license control database, you may need
    to change the information for that program.  For example, you may need to
    change the Maximum In Use after purchasing additional copies of the program.
    You may also want to reset the totals such as Most In Use, Total Used and
    Total Rejects back to zero.  If you do change these totals, you may want to
    change the Reset Date as well.

    To edit the control information for a program, highlight the desired program
    and press E or the equal (=) key.  Then change the desired fields.  Use the
    tab key to skip fields that are not to be changed and press Enter when done.
                                                                              59

    Delete License Control
    ======================

    To delete information about a program from the license control database,
    simply highlight the desired program and press D or the Delete key.  You may
    find this necessary if you no longer use the program or if you buy a site
    license.


    Disable Program Execution
    =========================

    The LAN administrator may want to disable a program so it cannot be executed
    by new users.  When disabled, current users of the program may continue to
    use it until they finish.  Once the current users have stopped using the
    program, maintenance or a new release can be implemented.  To disable
    program execution, highlight the desired program and press the asterick (*)
    key.  An asterick will be displayed to the left of the program indicating it
    is disabled.  To enable the program, again highlight the program and press
    the asterick (*).


    Display Current Users
    =====================

    While viewing the license control database, you may want to display the
    current users for a program.  In addition, you may find it necessary to set
    one or more of these as being used.  As explained earlier, this can be done
    using the query facility on the usage log.  However, MAXimize provides a
    convenient method for doing this from within the license control display.
    Simply highlight the program and press I.  The current users of this program
    will be displayed:

                          +========== WP.EXE ===========+
                          | Userid     Date     Start   |
                          +=============================+
                          | RYAN     92/08/22  15:20:00 |
                          |                             |
                          |                             |
                          |                             |
                          |                             |
                          |                             |
                          |                             |
                          |                             |
                          +=============================+
                          |                ^v PgDn PgUp |
                          | U=Set-Used        ESC: Exit |
                          +=============================+

    You may then set any program as being used by highlighting that program and
    pressing U.  To return to the license control display press the Esc key.
                                                                              60

    License Control Reports
    =======================

    The LAN administrator may want to print the information in the license
    control database to determine growth.  For example, each month the LAN
    administrator could print off the license control report, which lists and
    summarizes all license control information.  Then the program's totals could
    be reset.  Using these reports, it should be fairly easy to see were the
    growth in program usage is.  To print a report of the license control
    database, simply press R while viewing the license control database.  Then
    enter the desired destination file/printer for the report.


    Periodic Maintenance to Databases
    =================================

    The usage log and license control databases will require periodic
    maintenance.  How often depends entirely on activity.  Since the maintenance
    procedures are quick and can be done as an unattended "batch" process, you
    may do this maintenance as frequently as you like.  For example, you may do
    this each time you power on your LAN, nightly, weekly, monthly, yearly, etc.

    Periodic maintenance is needed for the usage log since the data will
    eventually become old.  This makes the database larger and slower.
    Therefore, old data should be purged (cleaned up) and the database compacted
    to remove the purged rows on a periodic basis.

    The license control database requires periodic maintenance when programs are
    incorrectly shown as being in use.  This can occur due to such things as
    power outages or when someone powers their computer off while using a
    program.

    The recommendation is to run MAXLOG with the /P and /U switches frequently
    on busy systems.  Perferably nightly and when powering the LAN on/off.  The
    compact should be done somewhat less often, such as weekly or when powering
    the LAN on.  For home use, this is only needed on a monthly or yearly basis.

    MAXLOG has three switches you can use to do this maintenance:

      /P?  This switch tells MAXimize to purge (or delete) usage log data older
           than the number of days (?) specified from the usage log.  The
           default is to purge data older than 31 days.  Thus, you can purge
           usage log data greater than one year old by using switch /U365.

      /C   This switch tells MAXimize to compact (or physically remove) all
           purged data from the usage log and the license control databases.
           This switch should only be used when no one is currently using
           MAXimize.  This releases the space used by purged data.

      /U?  This switch will set programs that are currently in use for the
           specified number of hours (?) to the used status.  The default is to
           set in use programs to the used status if they have been used more
           than 9 hours.  Thus, I could set all programs to the used status
           before my computer (or the LAN server) is powered off, or when it is
           powered on, by running MAXLOG /U0.  I can also use the WAITTILL
           program to run MAXLOG /U9 at 2:00 AM in the morning to set programs
                                                                              61

           started the previous day before 5:00 PM to the used status!

    These switches can be used together or independently of one another.  Since
    the /C switch should be done only when no one is using MAXimize, and the
    other switches do not have this restriction, you may not want to compact the
    usage log every time the purge is done.  To purge records older than one
    month, set programs in use that have been used since 5:00 PM and compact the
    usage log at 2 AM in the morning, you should run the following batch file:

      @ECHO OFF
      WAITTILL 02:00 Waiting until 2 AM to purge, reset and compact usage log.
      IF ERRORLEVEL 1 GOTO STOP
      MAXLOG   /P   /U   /C
      :STOP

        NOTE: If you are not running on a LAN, you will not want to wait until
              2 AM to run MAXLOG or use the /U switch.  In this case, simple
              run MAXLOG /P /C
                                                                              62

    Appendix A: Hints
    =================

    This appendix is intended to provide hints on how to get the most from
    MAXimize.  Only after installing and using MAXimize, should you read these
    hints. It is assumed that the reader has developed some knowledge of DOS and
    has the DOS manual available as a reference.


    Renaming MENU.BAT file
    ======================

    The MENU.BAT file can be renamed.  This may become necessary if it conflicts
    with another batch file or program.  This ability is provided through the /M
    switch in this file.  This switch tells MAXimize the name of the menu batch
    file being used.  To rename this file, use the DOS REN command.  Also, you
    may invoke MAXimize by entering MAX at the DOS prompt.


    Maximizing Performance
    ======================

    While MAXimize's performance is very good, there are a couple things you can
    do to get maximum performance.  One of the easiest is to specify BUFFERS=20
    in the CONFIG.SYS file.  This change will benefit many of the programs you
    run.

    When invoking MAXimize, use the MAX.EXE program instead of the MENU.BAT
    file.  The program should be slightly faster.

    You may be able to greatly increase the speed of MAXimize if you have a
    mouse attached to your computer.  The speed increase depends on your mouse,
    but generally is about 1 second per selection invocation and can be as high
    as 2 seconds!  The performance enhancement can only be gained if your mouse
    software driver is compatible with Microsoft Mouse driver version 6.0 or
    higher.  To determine if your mouse driver software is at this level, run
    FIXMOUSE.COM from the DOS prompt.  This program is distributed with
    MAXimize.  It will initialize your mouse and tell you if MAXimize will
    perform faster.  If the FIXMOUSE message doesn't indicate "(FAST)", you
    should get the latest mouse software driver from your local computer store
    (your mouse hardware doesn't need to be changed).  Another possibility is to
    turn the mouse off in the miscellaneous options.  If nothing else, turning
    off the mouse for a while will give you an idea if it is slowing MAXimize
    down.
                                                                              63

    Appendix B: Trouble Shooting and Technical Support
    ==================================================

    Max Software will provide support for MAXimize for at least 90 days after
    the registration date.  This includes answering questions and fixing serious
    defects.  Max Software may choose to refund the purchase price during this
    90 day period rather than fix a problem when the problem is due to a
    specific hardware or software environment.  Beyond this 90 day period,
    support for this version of MAXimize is not guaranteed when a newer version
    is available or past one year from the registration date.  Thus, after 90
    days, Max Software MAY request that you purchase a newer version (when
    available) to determine if the problem is fixed by it.

    MAXimize is designed to be easy to install and use.  However, there is a
    rare chance that you might encounter a problem that you cannot resolve
    yourself.  If, after reading the hints in appendix A, you still have a
    problem finding an answer, please follow the procedure for contacting
    technical support described next.


    How to Obtain Technical Support
    -------------------------------

    As a registered MAXimize customer, you have access to help with any problems
    you cannot solve yourself.  To register for this support, be sure to fill
    out and mail the registration card that is included with your MAXimize
    package.

    Before contacting technical support, have your MAXimize manual and diskettes
    available and the following information:

    1. The make and model of your computer.
    2. The version of MS-DOS that you are using.
    3. The version of MAXimize you are using.
    4. If a selection is causing the problem, please include information about
       the selection.
    5. Be ready to provide your name, address, phone number and company name (if
      applicable).


    Problems may be reported by one of the following methods:

    1. Send a letter to:

              Max Software
              9121 141st West
              Taylor Ridge, IL 61284

    2. Send a message to CompuServe user ID 71170,740

    3. Call the MAXimize hot line at 309-798-2533

    Be sure to include all of the information requested above.
                                                                              64

    Appendix C: Networks and Shared PCs
    ===================================

    MAXimize supports Local Area Networks (LANs) and will also allow several
    people to share a single PC.  In both cases, users may have their own
    options, such as colors, while running off one copy of the MAXimize files.

    When you invoke MAXimize, you may provide a user identification.  This user
    identification indicates who is using MAXimize and thus, which setup to use.
    If the user identification is not specified, then the LAN version will
    prompt for it and the non-LAN version will use "MAXIMIZE" (which is the
    base).  This user identification must be a valid DOS file name with no
    extension.  The user ID may be greater than 7 characters, but the first 7
    characters must be unique.  You may specify your user identification with
    the /U switch or the "ID" environment variable (this may be changed during
    the installation of the LAN version of MAXimize).  If both are specified,
    the /U switch takes precedence.  To force MAXimize to prompt for the user
    identification, specify a user identification of question mark (/U?).

    To change the user identification while in MAXimize, press Alt+O N and then
    the new user ID (see the "New User ID" section of Chapter 3..  This is
    particularly useful when working with a PC shared by more than one person.

    As each user modifies the options, it is saved to a file with their user
    identification as the file name and an extension of SET.  This file is saved
    in the directory the current setup file was originally read from.

    For each computer on the LAN using MAXimize or a shared PC,  you MAY want to
    change the following:

       1. Add SET SPACE=12345678 to their AUTOEXEC.BAT file.  This reserves
          space in their environment pool.  This space may be needed when
          changing the user ID with the /U switch or when they press Alt+O N.
          If there is not enough space in the environment pool, error number
          902 will occur.

       2. Add the MAXimize installation directory to the PATH in their
          AUTOEXEC.BAT file.  This will allow the users to invoke MAXimize
          without switching to its drive/directory.

       3. Set the ID environment variable either by modifying their
          AUTOEXEC.BAT file or their network login script.  For example, use
          the DOS SET command in your AUTOEXEC.BAT file to set the ID
          environment variable (ie. SET ID=janet).

       4. Add a line at the end of the AUTOEXEC.BAT file to invoke MAXimize, if
          the user wants MAXimize to be invoked when they power on their PCs.

    For the shared PC support, without the LAN version, you may want to force
    MAXimize to prompt for a user identification (instead of using "MAXIMIZE").
    This can easily be done by creating a batch file as follows:

           ECHO OFF
           MAX /U? %1 %2 %3 %4 %5 %6 %7 %8 %9
                                                                              65

    To invoke MAXimize run the above batch file.  You will then be prompted for
    your user identification.  Another twist on this is to create a batch file
    for each user to invoke MAXimize.   Each batch file would be the same as
    that listed above, except the question mark should be replaced with a user
    identification.

    It is a good idea to include the user identification in the main menu title.
    This can be done using the &ID& special variable.  For example, the title
    could be "Main menu for user &ID&".  This will allow users to determine that
    the desired identification is being used.  Also, selections may use this
    special variable.  In this way the selection could act differently for each
    user.  For example, each user may have a separate directory that the
    selection switches to.  If this is the case, the selection's description
    should have the user identification in it (ex. "Word processing for &ID&").
    This will help identify which selections are dependent on the user's
    identification being correct.


    NOTES:   The LAN version of MAXimize is required if you are running MAXimize
             on a LAN with multiple users.  Therefore, be sure to purchase a LAN
             license if you are going to use MAXimize on a LAN!

             Using this feature MAY require DOS 3.10 or higher (see error
             message number 902).
                                                                              66

    Appendix D: Messages
    ====================

    The message window reports any informational, warning or error messages.
    The majority of messages are warnings.  Besides the message, the window
    contains the message number in the lower right hand corner.  All messages
    are documented by this message number below.  After reading the message, you
    must hit the space bar to continue.  MAXimize will then take an appropriate
    action as documented.  You may then take corrective action, if any, for the
    message.

    The following is a list of message numbers on the left and the text of the
    message on the right.  Each message will have a description of the problem,
    the action MAXimize will take and any corrective action you might want to
    take.


    200  Menu [menu] not in [path]
         where [menu] will be replaced with a menu file name and [path] will be
         replaced with a directory name(s).
       Description: The menu shown cannot be found in the user menus and hot
                    keys path (also shown).
         Action:    The menu will be displayed using a title of the menu name
                    with no selections.
       Correction:  If the menu should exist, press Esc to return to prior menu.
                    Then locate the menu file on your hard disk and copy it to
                    the directory shown.  If the menu is new, add selections.

    201  Maximum number of menus reached, ignoring [menu]
         where [menu] will be replaced with the file name of the sub-menu
         requested.
       Description: A selection chosen has specified a sub-menu however, the
                    maximum number of nested menus has been reached.
         Action:    MAXimize will ignore the sub-menu and display the current
                    menu.
       Correction:  Transfer the selection that displays the sub-menu to a
                    higher level menu.

    202  Menu [menu] file format error
         where [menu] will be replaced with the file name of the menu in error.
       Description: The menu file's format is incorrect.
         Action:    MAXimize will ignore the menu and display the current/main
                    menu.
       Correction:  If the menu is a version 1 menu, then it should be converted
                    to version 2 format.
                                                                              67

    203  Menu [menu] does not match encryption key
         where [menu] will be replaced with the file name of the menu in error.
       Description: The menu file's encryption key doesn't match the encryption
                    key for this MAXimize system.
         Action:    MAXimize will ignore the menu and display the current/main
                    menu.
       Correction:  If you are using a menu from another MAXimize system, you
                    must specify their encryption key.  Also, you may have
                    changed the encryption key in your options without first
                    removing password protection from all menus and selections.

    301  Selection has no action to perform
       Description: A selection or hot key was chosen for which no action (sub-
                    menu or commands) has been defined.
         Action:    MAXimize will ignore the request.
       Correction:  Either the wrong hot key was pressed or it must be updated
                    to have an action.

    302  All copies of [application] are in use
       Description: All licensed copies of the desired application are currently
                    in use.
         Action:    MAXimize will ignore the request.
       Correction:  Either wait till a copy is no longer in use or notify your
                    LAN administrator.

    303  Selection has an invalid [function] parameter: [parameter]
         where [function] is the failing function and [parameter] is the bad
         parameter
       Description: The function failed due to the specification of an invalid
                    parameter.
         Action:    The execution of the selection is stopped.
       Correction:  Correct the bad function parameter.

    304  &Dir and &File are not supported in MAXimize Basic edition
       Description: The &Dir and &File functions are not supported in the Basic
                    edition.
         Action:    The execution of the selection is stopped.
       Correction:  Use these functions with Gold edition of MAXimize only.

    305  Program [TrackBy] has been disabled by the administrator
         where [TrackBy] is the application that has been disabled
       Description: The administrator has  disabled the  application, making  it
                    unavailable for use at this time.   Generally, this is  done
                    to allow  the  administrator  to apply  maintenance  to  the
                    application.
         Action:    The execution of the selection is stopped.
       Correction:  Wait till the administrator has enabled the application.

    402  No room in menu for selection(s)
       Description: You have attempted to insert a selection(s) into a menu that
                    would exceed the maximum number or selections allowed.
         Action:    Operation is not allowed.
       Correction:  Split this menu into smaller menus.
                                                                              68

    403  Total length of menu's descriptions and messages is too large
       Description: The total length of this menu's description and help message
                    fields is too large.
         Action:    Operation is not allowed.
       Correction:  Shorten the description and or help messages for some of the
                    selections on this menu.

    404  Sub-menu is a variable ([menu]) - cannot process selection
         where [menu] is the sub-menu name.
       Description: The copy/transfer/find function cannot process through a
                    selection that contains a variable in the sub-menu name.
         Action:    The sub-menu is not displayed.
       Correction:  Use/define another route to get to the desired sub-menu.

    405  Cannot copy or transfer an empty Hot Key
       Description: The copy/transfer/find function cannot be used on a Hot Key
                    that has not been defined.
         Action:    The copy or transfer operation is aborted.
       Correction:  Do not copy or transfer an empty Hot Key.

    406  Cannot insert into hot keys
       Description: The copy/transfer operation was used to copy more than one
                    selection to the hot keys menu.
         Action:    Operation is not allowed.
       Correction:  Copy/transfer selections to the hot keys one at a time.

    601  File MAXLOG.DBF cannot be found in current directory or in the
         directory defined in the MAXDIR enviroment variable.
       Description: The MAXLOG.DBF database file could not be located in the
                    current directory or through the MAXDIR environment
                    variable.
         Action:    MAXLOG terminates.
       Correction:  Start MAXLOG from the directory containing MAXLOG.DBF or set
                    the MAXDIR environment variable to this directory.

    602  Unable to allocate unique index name.
       Description: MAXLOG was unable to allocate a unique index name.  Whenever
                    MAXLOG creates an index, it is only for the duration of that
                    it is needed and should be removed upon exit from MAXLOG.
         Action:    MAXLOG terminates.
       Correction:  Make sure there are no *.NTX files in the directory
                    containing the MAXLOG.DBF file.  Then try running MAXLOG
                    again.

    603  Invalid parm data, program ending
       Description: MAXLOG was started with invalid parameter data - switches.
         Action:    MAXLOG terminates after displaying the valid syntax.
       Correction:  Correct the invalid parameters.
                                                                              69

    604  [DBF] locked by another user.  Skipping [function].
         where [DBF] is the database that is locked and [function] is the
         function that will be skipped due to the lock failure.
       Description: MAXLOG has been locked out of the specified database because
                    another person/process is making changes.
         Action:    MAXLOG skips the specified function.
       Correction:  Determine what has the lock and remove the lock.  Then run
                    MAXLOG again.

    800  [DOS error (code)].  Unable to save menu or hot keys
         where [DOS error (code)] indicates the type of DOS error that occurred
       Description: A DOS error occurred while MAXimize tried to save a menu or
                    the hot keys.
         Action:    Menu or hot keys is not saved - changes are lost.
       Correction:  Fix the error if possible, else report it.

    801  [DOS error (code)].  Unable to read help file (MAXIMIZE.HLP)
         where [DOS error (code)] indicates the type of DOS error that
         occurred.
       Description: A DOS error occurred while MAXimize tried to read its help
                    file.
         Action:    MAXimize will not be able to provide help.
       Correction:  Ensure that the MAXIMIZE.HLP file is in the Setup/Help
                    directory (normally this is the directory MAXimize was
                    installed in).   Reinstall MAXimize to get its help file.

    803  [DOS error (code)]. Unable to read options file - reset failed
         where [DOS error (code)] indicates the type of DOS error that
         occurred.
       Description: A DOS error occurred when MAXimize tried to read the options
                    file to reset the options back to the last permanently save
                    version.
         Action:    Reset of options fails.
       Correction:  Fix the error if possible, else report it.

    804  [DOS error (code)].  Unable to restart
         where [DOS error (code)] indicates the type of DOS error that occurred
       Description: A DOS error occurred while MAXimize tried to restart after a
                    selection had finished.
         Action:    MAXimize displays the main menu due to restart failure.
       Correction:  Fix the error if possible, else report it.

    805  [DOS error (code)].  Unable to create batch commands file
         where [DOS error (code)] indicates the type of DOS error that
         occurred.
       Description: A DOS error occurred while MAXimize tried to create the
                    batch file used to run the selection's commands.
         Action:    MAXimize will quit processing.
       Correction:  Fix the error if possible, else report it.
                                                                              70

    806  [DOS error (code)]. Options could not be saved.
         where [DOS error (code)] indicates the type of DOS error that
         occurred.
       Description: A DOS error occurred while MAXimize was saving the options.
         Action:    The options are not saved.
       Correction:  Fix the error if possible, else report it.

    807  [DOS error (code)]. Unable to read menu [menu]
         where [DOS error (code)] indicates the type of DOS error that occurred
         and [menu] is the file name of a menu.
       Description: A DOS error occurred when MAXimize tried to read the menu
                    file.
         Action:    Current/main menu is displayed.
       Correction:  Fix the error if possible, else report it.

    808  [DOS error (code)]. [menu] could not be locked
         where [DOS error (code)indicates the type of DOS error that occurred
         and [menu] is the file name that could not be locked.
       Description: A DOS error occurred when MAXimize tried to lock a menu
                    before updating the menu or its selections.  This is for the
                    LAN version of MAXimize only.
         Action:    The operation is not allowed.
       Correction:  Fix the error if possible, else report it.

    809  [DOS error (code)]. Unable to log to usage log database
         where [DOS error (code)indicates the type of DOS error that occurred.
       Description: A DOS error occurred when MAXimize tried to update the usage
                    log database (MAXLOG.DBF).
         Action:    The operation is not allowed.
       Correction:  Fix the error if possible, else report it.

    810  [DOS error (code)]. Unable to update license control database
         where [DOS error (code)indicates the type of DOS error that occurred.
       Description: A DOS error occurred when MAXimize tried to update the
                    license control database (MAXCHK.DBF).
         Action:    The operation is not allowed.
       Correction:  Fix the error if possible, else report it.

    901  Releases do not match between MAXimize EXE files.
       Description: The releases of the MAXimize EXE programs are different.
         Action:    The operation fails.
       Correction:  Reinstall MAXimize to ensure the programs are at the same
                    release.
                                                                              71

    902  Unable to set user identification in [which] environment - [reason]
         where [which] is either master or current [reason] is "not enough
         room" or a return code.
       Description: The user identification variable could not be set in the DOS
                    environment.
         Action:    Previous user identification will be used.  MAXimize will
                    quit if it was called from the MENU.BAT batch file and there
                    is no previous user identification.
       Correction:  If the reason code is "not enough room", add "SET
                    SPACE=12345678" to your AUTOEXEC.BAT file.  This reserves
                    space in your environment pool for this purpose. If the
                    reason code is anything else, check your DOS version (use
                    the DOS VER command).  If your DOS version is less than
                    3.10, then upgrade to a newer DOS version. Otherwise, report
                    the problem.

    903  Unable to locate options files - will use defaults
       Description: MAXimize was unable to locate your options file (the file
                    containing your settings for directories, colors, passwords,
                    etc.).  This file is the user's identification with an
                    extension of SET.
         Action:    The default settings are used.
       Correction:  MAXimize will search the default directory as specified by
                    the /D switch, the directory specified by the MAXDIR
                    environment variable, the directory MAXimize was invoked
                    from, the current directory, the directories in the DOS PATH
                    and finally C:\MAX\.

    904  Unable to allocate memory required for copy/transfer
       Description: MAXimize must allocate additional memory to do the copy or
                    transfer functions.  However, this failed.
         Action:    The copy/transfer fails.
       Correction:  Make sure you have enough memory on your machine to run
                    MAXimize.  Also, if you were processing multiple selections,
                    try doing one at a time.

    905  Options directories are invalid, changed to initial values
       Description: One or more of the directories specified in the options does
                    not exist.
         Action:    These directories will be reset to their initial setting.
                    This will either be the directory MAXimize was invoked from
                    or none at all, depending on the directory that is bad.
       Correction:  Review all directories specified in the options to ensure
                    they are correct.

    906  Mouse not installed - cannot be used
       Description: The mouse driver software is not installed.
         Action:    The mouse cannot be used by MAXimize.
       Correction:  Review your mouse manual and install it.
                                                                              72

    907  Not enough memory available for [filespec] 
         where [filespec] is a program MAXimize was trying to run.
       Description: MAXimize is unable to run the specified program due to a
                    lack of memory on your computer.
         Action:    The operation fails.
       Correction:  Try to free memory by removing TSR programs.

    908  Unable to load ([code]) [filespec]
         where [code] is an internal code and [filespec] is the file name of
         the program MAXimize was trying to run.
       Description: MAXimize was unable to load the program.
         Action:    The operation fails.
       Correction:  If the filespec is your comspec, then correct the comspec
                    specification in your environment variables to point to your
                    command processor (COMMAND.COM).  Otherwise, make sure that
                    the program specified as filespec is there.

    910  [menu] currently in use - lock could not be obtained ([code])
         where [menu] is the file name for the menu being locked and [code] is
         an internal code indicating the type of error.
       Description: MAXimize could not lock a menu.  This menu was being used or
                    updated by another user.  This error only occurs for the LAN
                    version of MAXimize.
         Action:    For update operations, you will be allowed to update the
                    selection.  However, if you change a selection and then
                    accept those changes, the lock must then be obtained. This
                    allows you to view a selection even though it could not be
                    locked.  For all other operations, the operation fails.
       Correction:  Make sure no one else is using or updating the menu.


    911  Access error ([code]).  User already in MAXimize.
         where [code] is an internal code indicating the type of error.
       Description: MAXimize could not open the batch file used to execute a
                    selection's commands because it is already in use.  There is
                    one allocated for each user and session combination.
         Action:    MAXimize will request the user identification to be used.
       Correction:  Make sure no one else is using this user identification and
                    session.

    950  Selection was built by MAXimize Gold - unable to update
       Description: MAXimize could update this selection because it was built by
                    the Gold edition using it's advance features.
         Action:    MAXimize will not update the selection as requested.
       Correction:  Selection can only be updated by the MAXimize Gold edition.

    998  MAXSETUP failed: [message]
         where [message] indicates which severe error occurred.
       Description: A severe error, indicated by the message, occurred.
                    MAXimize could not recover from it.
         Action:    The MAXSETUP program terminates.
       Correction:  Report this failure.
                                                                              73

    Index
    =====


                                              Add, 58
    Arrow icons, 10, 19                       Delete, 59
                                              Disable, 59
    Border, 9                                 Display Users, 59
    Buttons, 12                               Edit, 58
                                              Maintenance, 60
    Colors, 37                                Reports, 60
                                              Set Used, 59
    Description, 26                         Limiting License Usage, 56
    Descripton, 27                          Log Violation, 40
    Dialog Boxes, 11
      Buttons, 12                           Main menu, 8
      Fields, 12                            Main window, 9
      Lists, 13                             Marking selections, 25
      Toggles, 13                           MAX.EXE, 8
    DOS                                     MAXCONVT.EXE, 47
      Go To, 23                             MAXSETUP.EXE, 43
                                            Menu
    Edit                                      {Main}, 35
      Keys, 12                                {Prior}, 35
    Encryption key, 41                        Add a sub-menu, 29
    Environment variable                      Anatomy, 8
      ID, 21                                  Delete a sub-menu, 34
                                              Main, 8
    Files                                     Navigation, 15
      Installed, 5                            Password, 29, 49
    Files Installed, 5                        Title, 9, 28
    Format                                    Updating characteristics, 28
      Selections, 25                        Menu Bar, 10
                                            MENU.BAT, 8
    Help                                      Renaming, 62
      For MAXimize, 14                      Messages, 66
      Keys, 14                              Monitor, 50
      Message, 9                            Mouse
      Related topics, 14                      Can be used to, 18
    Hot Keys, 19, 21, 24, 31, 34, 45          Click, 18
                                              Double-Click, 18
    Input                                     Drag, 18
      Entry mode, 13                          Point, 18
      Prompt window, 17                       Pointer, 18
    Installation, 4                           Release, 18
    Invoking MAXimize, 8, 62                  Using a, 18

    Keys                                    Networks, 64
      Edit, 12                              NOBREAK, 48, 50
      Help, 14
      Shift-Tab, 11, 12                     Options
      Tab, 11                                 Changing the, 37
                                              Colors, 37
    LAN                                       Miscellaneous, 42
      User ID, 21                             Passwords, 40
    License Control, 57                       Project, 44


                                                                              74
      Reset, 43                               Update, 31
      User ID, 44                           Selection format
                                              Display menu, 27
    Parameters, 26, 35                        Run program, 25
    Password                                Shared PCs, 64
      Change forgotten, 48                  Shift-Tab, 11, 12
      Creator, 48                           Status line, 9
      Encryption Key, 50                      Mouse, 19
      Encryption key, 41                    Sub-Menu, 27
      Entry, 48                             Switches
      Log Violation, 40                       /A, 21
      Menu, 29                                /I, 21, 45
      menu, 49                                /K, 21, 45
      Options, 40                             /M, 21, 62
      Quitting, 40, 48                        /Q, 21
      Security, 48                            /U, 21
      Selection, 26, 28, 49                 System requirements, 4
      Setup, 40, 49
    Pause, 26                               Tab, 11
    PC Secure, 49                             Shift-Tab, 11, 12
    Performance, 62                         Title, 9
    Problems                                Toggles, 13
      Reporting, 63
    Programs, 26                            Update mode, 43
    Prompt, 26, 35                          Usage log, 50
                                              Clear Query, 53
    Quick start, 5                            Maintenance, 60
    Quitting MAXimize, 18                     Query, 52
                                              Reports, 55
    Screen                                    Sequence, 54
      Protection, 16                          Set Used, 54
      Save, 16                              User ID
    Scroll bar, 9, 19                         Specifying, 21
    Scroll box, 10, 19
    Security, 48                            VIEW.EXE, 45
    Selection
      Add, 29                               Wall Paper, 9
      Bar, 9                                Window
      Choosing, 15                            Border, 9
      Copy, 32                                Cascade, 16
      Delete, 34                              Main, 9
      Description, 9, 26, 27
      Formats, 25
      IDs, 9
      Marking, 25
      Moving to new, 15
      Parameters, 26, 35
      Password, 26, 28
      password, 49
      Pause, 26
      Program, 26
      Prompt, 26, 35
      Quit, 35
      Sub-menu, 27, 35
      Transfer, 32
```
{% endraw %}

## ORDER.DOC

{% raw %}
```
+================ Invoice for MAXimize Version 3.1 Basic Edition =============+
|                                                                             |
| Contact name:______________________________________________________________ |
|                                                                             |
| Company:     ________________________________(only if purchased by company) |
|                                                                             |
| Address:     ______________________________________________________________ |
|                                                                             |
|              ______________________________________________________________ |
|                                                                             |
|              ______________________________________________________________ |
|                                                                             |
| Phone:       (______)______-_________  Computer: __________________________ |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1) CHECK PRICE: __  $39 = One user. -------------------------------> $_____ |
|                 __  $49 = One user with usage log reporting. ----|          |
|                 __ $195 = Up to 10 users. -----------------------|          |
|                 __ $245 = Up to 10 users with usage log report. -|          |
|                 __ $395 = Up to 10 users on a LAN with usage ----|          |
|                           log reporting and license control.                |
|                                                                             |
|    NOTE: a) PRICES MAY CHANGE WITH NEWER VERSIONS OF MAXimize!              |
|          b) Call for larger quantity discounts or Site licenses.            |
|          c) See FEATURES.DOC for information of Gold edition.               |
|                                                                             |
| 2) SHIPPING AND HANDLING: $5 if YOU live in U.S., else $10 ----->  + $_____ |
|                                                                             |
| 3) TOTAL PRICE TO BE PAID (subtract line 4 from 3) ------------->  = $_____ |
|                                                                       ===== |
| 4) CHECK METHOD OF PAYMENT:                                                 |
|                                                                             |
|    __ Check - Make check payable to "Max Software" in UNITED STATES DOLLARS.|
|               Check MUST be drawn on a bank operating in the UNITED STATES. |
|                                                                             |
|    __ Visa __ Mastercard --> Credit card number:___________________________ |
|                          |                                                  |
|                          --> Expires:___/___ Signature:____________________ |
|                                                                             |
| 5) DISK SIZE:   _____ 3.5" (720K)  -or-   _____ 5.25" (360K)                |
|                                                                             |
| 6) Will this be ran on a Local Area Network (LAN)? (default=NO):  _____     |
+=============================================================================+

Send invoice (and check) to:        -OR-     Call in your credit card order.
       Max Software                          -------------------------------
       9121 141st West                       Telephone number: 309-798-2533
       Taylor Ridge, IL 61284                Have the above information ready.

Please include any comments you might have on the reverse side - Thanks!
```
{% endraw %}

## README.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                      MAXimize Basic Edition, Version 3.1
                      ===================================

                                      From

                                  MAX SOFTWARE
                                  ============


                         9121 141st West
                         Taylor Ridge, IL 61284
                         Phone number: 309-798-2533
                         CompuServe user ID: 71170,740


                    Copyright (C) 1988-1990 by Don Cappaert.
                              All rights reserved.




     This is the Basic edition of MAXimize.  The following are related
     files:

          MAXUTL31.ZIP   -->  The optional utilities for usage log
                              reporting, license control and AutoMenu (MDF)
                              conversions (MAXLOG.EXE & MAXCONVT.EXE)
          MAXGLD31.ZIP   -->  The Gold edition of MAXimize

     If you are unable to locate either of these files, you may request
     them by sending $5 to the address above.  Be sure to include the
     version number of MAXimize you are using and your address.





     Table of Contents:
     ==================

     Introduction.............................................2
     Other Documentation Files................................2
     Installing MAXimize......................................2
     Starting MAXimize........................................2
     Getting Started Quickly..................................2
     Ordering MAXimize........................................3
     Getting Help.............................................4
     Common Problems..........................................4

                                                                          2

     Introduction:
     =============

     This document contains information more current than the manual.  It
     explains what documentation files are available, has information to
     get you started quickly and includes a history of changes made to
     MAXimize.

     For the shareware version of MAXimize, a shareware panel will appear
     when it is started.  This panel should appear once a day.  Also,
     MAXIMIZE.INI is a special initialization file that must not be
     deleted!  See the "Common problems" section below, if you get the DOS
     prompt after running a selection.


     Other Documentation Files:
     ==========================

     FEATURES.DOC - lists the major features of MAXimize Gold & Basic.
     WHATSNEW.DOC - lists the new features of version 3.0
     ORDER.DOC    - order form and instructions for ordering MAXimize.
     VENDOR.DOC   - vendor distribution form.
     MANUAL.DOC   - copy of manual (licensed copies get a nicely printed
                    and bound manual).


     Installing MAXimize:
     ====================

     To install MAXimize, simply run the INSTALL.EXE program provided.
     This program should be located in the directory you unpacked the files
     into.



     Starting MAXimize:
     ==================

     After installing MAXimize, you can start it by either entering MENU or
     MAX at the DOS prompt from the MAXimize directory.  For example,

          C:
          CD \MAX
          MAX


     Getting Started Quickly:
     ========================

     If you want to get started using MAXimize quickly and know a little
     about DOS, then keep the following in mind:

     1) After starting MAXimize, sample menus will be displayed.  The
        selections on these menus will either:

        A) Display another menu (These selections have "menu" added to the
           end of their descriptions as in "Games menu").

                                                                          3

        B) "ECHO" a statement to the screen.  These selections should be
           changed to run your program.  Simply change the "ECHO" to your
           program name and clear or change the "Parameters."
        C) Perform some work. This is done in the menus that start with
           "SAMP" only.

        An "ECHO" is usually done, such as with the "Word Processor"
        selection. These menus are provided to give you one possible way
        to organize your applications using the menus.  Feel free to
        update these menus to fit your particular needs.

        NOTE:  Any menu starting with SAMP will be replaced when you
               upgrade.  The "SAMP" menus are displayed by selecting
               "Samples menu" from the main menu.  Also, the sample menus
               assume that the directory containing DOS is in your PATH.

     2) The menu bar is displayed in the top line of the screen.  It is
        activated by the slash (/), Alt or F10 keys.  From the menu bar,
        you may choose file to display another menu or exit from MAXimize.
        The edit selection in the menu bar has selections to update the
        menu displayed or the selections within the menu.  The options
        selection allows you to change MAXimize's options (such as the
        colors).  And the help selection in the menu bar allows you to get
        help for a selection, for MAXimize or about MAXimize (its edition
        and version).

     3) The status line is the bottom line of the screen.  It contains a
        list of keys most often needed.  These keys will change as you do
        different tasks (such as add, update, delete, etc.).  In general,
        you should look at the status line if you're not sure which key to
        press.

     4) If you need help at any time, simply press F2.  MAXimize contains
        extensive help that is context sensitive (that is, MAXimize
        displays help that pertains to the operation you're currently
        doing).  If you are not sure how to use the help facility, simply
        press F1 for an explanation of the help facility.

     5) To modify a selection, simply highlight it by using the arrow keys
        or mark it by pressing the space bar (you may mark several
        selections in ONE menu).  Then press "Alt+E" to Edit.  You may
        then add, update, delete, copy or transfer the selection(s).

     6) To modify the menu, simply display it and press "Alt+E U M".

     7) To change options (colors, passwords, etc.), simply press "ALT+O".


     Ordering MAXimize:
     ==================

     When you order MAXimize, you will receive a beautiful manual, a
     reference card and the latest version of MAXimize on a diskette.  Max
     Software will provide support for any problems or questions you might
     have for at least 90 days after you order MAXimize.  You will also be
     notified when there are updates to or newer versions of MAXimize.

                                                                          4

     To order MAXimize (or additional copies of MAXimize), simply print off
     the order form.  The order form can be printed by entering "PRINT
     ORDER.DOC" at the DOS prompt from the MAXimize installation directory.
     Then simply follow the instructions on the order form.  If you will be
     using MAXimize on a LAN, be sure to specify a LAN license (the
     software is different for LANs).


     Getting Help:
     =============

     To get help, you may:

     1) Send a letter to:     Max Software
                              9121 141st West
                              Taylor Ridge, IL 61284

     2) Send a message to CompuServe user ID 71170,740

     3) Call the MAXimize phone line at 309-798-2533

     Be sure to include your name, address, phone number and company name
     (if applicable).  The text of the letter should adequately describe
     the problem you are having.  If a selection is causing the problem,
     please include information about the selection.


     Common Problems:
     ================

     1) If after your selection runs you have been returned to the DOS
        prompt instead of in MAXimize.  Then you probably are running a
        batch file from a selection and that batch file runs another one
        without using the DOS CALL (or COMMAND /C) when doing this.

     2) If you lose position on the sub-menu (main menu is displayed)
        after the selection runs, then the commands invoked through the
        selection has probably invoked MAXimize again.  This may have been
        done because of the first problem above (going back to the DOS
        prompt after running a selection).  Remove the line  that invokes
        MAXimize again from the commands.

```
{% endraw %}

## VENDOR.DOC

{% raw %}
```
+====================== MAXimize Vendor Distribution Form ====================+
|                                                                             |
| Name:        Last: _______________________ First: ______________ Middle: __ |
|                                                                             |
| Company:     ______________________________________________________________ |
|                                                                             |
| Address:     ______________________________________________________________ |
|                                                                             |
|              ______________________________________________________________ |
|                                                                             |
|              ______________________________________________________________ |
|                                                                             |
| Phone:       (______)______-_________    Edition(s):  __ Gold  __ Basic     |
+=============================================================================+
|              MAXimize Distribution Licensing Agreement                      |
|                                                                             |
| Anyone wishing to charge people a fee for giving them a shareware copy of   |
| MAXimize must have the written authorization of the author, without which,  |
| the distributor is guilty of copyright violation.  To receive such auth-    |
| orization, send this completed application, along with a copy of your       |
| software library's order form to:                                           |
|                                                                             |
| Max Software                                                                |
| 9121 141st West                                                             |
| Taylor Ridge, IL 61284                                                      |
|                                                                             |
| For distributors already recognized by the association of Shareware         |
| Professionals, this application is not necessary.  However, it is           |
| still recommended so that I can distribute newer versions to you.           |
+=============================================================================+
|                 Terms of Distribution of MAXimize:                          |
|                                                                             |
| 1. The fee charged may not exceed $10, including postage, mailer and any    |
|    other charges.                                                           |
| 2. Your library's catalog or listing must state that this program is not    |
|    free, but is copyrighted software that is provided to allow the user     |
|    to evaluate it before paying.                                            |
| 3. The offering and sale of MAXimize will be stopped at any time the        |
|    author requests.                                                         |
| 4. Copies must be made from the copy of MAXimize sent to you with this      |
|    agreement.  This is required for control purposes.                       |
| 5. Problems or complaints about the program will be reported to the author  |
|    for investigation.  In return for a license to charge a fee for the      |
|    distribution of the program MAXimize, I agree to comply with the above   |
|    terms of distribution.                                                   |
|                                                                             |
|    Signed, ____________________________________________  __________________ |
|                your signature                               date            |
|                                                                             |
|            ____________________________________________  __________________ |
|              Don Cappaert                                   date            |
+=============================================================================+


     The following text is a description of MAXimize that can be used in your  
     catalog.  You will notice that MAXimize consists of three separate disks.  
     Your customers should be able to request them separately if desired. 
     Also, these files are "zipped" together.  If you are interested in a 
     self-extracting AND installing version, please contact us.  


     Description of MAXimize:            
     ------------------------

        MAXimize is an Application Interface Manager (AIM) that is faster, 
        more powerful, easier to use and change than menu systems. It greatly
        improves your productivity by allowing you to easily design, build 
        and control an intuitive interface to your programs. This will
        increase your speed and reduce errors. MAXimize provides an operating
        environment with significantly greater flexibility and capabilities.
        

        Basic Edition in file MAXBAS31.ZIP ($39):                  
        -----------------------------------------                  

        Fast, uses no memory when invoking programs, cascading windows, 
        SAA/CUA, pull down menus, dialog boxes/buttons, fully customizable, 
        integrated and sophisticated selection/menu editor, 99 selections per 
        menu/screen, unlimited menus, hot keys, full mouse support, usage 
        logging, extensive passwords, secured screen save, timed execution, 
        can load TSRs. Easily update, delete, copy or transfer multiple 
        selections with one operation. Searches hard disks to find program 
        when adding selection. Multiple user support, multiple sessions under 
        a task switcher (e.g. under Software Carousel), network compatible, 
        network license control. Excellent on-line help and documentation. 
        TSR to prevent control breaks and reboots.


        Gold Edition in file MAXGLD31.ZIP ($59):                  
        ----------------------------------------
        
        Basic edition plus: 25/43/50 line screen, help text for each 
        selection, set default directories. Add text to menus (for company 
        name, logo and help). Set keys used to pick selections with (e.g. type  
        X to pick "eXit"). These keys can also be numeric, alpha-numeric or 
        the first character.

        Batch files can be coded within a selection. MAXimize adds many 
        powerful batch language extensions and allows a selection to have 
        multiple input prompts. Prompts can be for text, an item from a list,  
        a file, directory or drive. Prompts/commands can be conditionally 
        executed.

        Supports environment, input (e.g. %1), global and special variables.   
        Global variables are used to hold/pass information among selections.
        Special variables return the date, time, drive, directory, DOS 
        version, etc.

        


        Utilities in file MAXUTL31.ZIP. Used in Gold & Basic:
        -----------------------------------------------------

        The usage log utility produces many reports on how your PC or LAN 
        software is used. Report on who used what software, how often, when 
        it was used and for how long. It costs $10 and is great for 
        determining what software your family or business uses. Good for IRS   
        and billing purposes.

        The network license control utility ensures that the number of users 
        of a program don't exceed the number of licenses purchased. Cost based 
        on number of network users.

        The AutoMenu MDF file conversion utility is for the Gold edition only 
        and is included free of charge. It converts AutoMenu MDF compatible 
        menus to MAXimize menus.


    Max Software provides the following registration benefits:            
    ----------------------------------------------------------

        >  BBS support on CompuServe
        >  Latest version sent when registered
        >  Nicely printed manual
        >  Upgrade notices are sent with each new release
        >  Telephone support
        >  Site licenses and quantity discounts
        >  Customization of software is available, but not included in 
           registration fee
        >  ASP membership will be applied for. All regulations of the ASP have 
           been followed. Please call if you want the status of this.

```
{% endraw %}

## WHATSNEW.DOC

{% raw %}
```


          The following is a summary of the updates for version 3.1 of
          MAXimize.  To get a list of the features in MAXimize please
          review the FEATURES.DOC file.

          > Cascading windows or full window display of menus.

          > Hide or disable items in the menu bar or on the pull down menus.

          > Faster when using a mouse compatible with MicroSoft v6.0 or up.
```
{% endraw %}

## PCSIG.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                            P C  -  S I G





++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Welcome to the world of Shareware, state of the art software you can
actually try before you buy.

Shareware, a term coined in the early eighties, refers to the method of
distribution chosen by the software authors.  With shareware, you can
receive a program and put it through its paces without having to pay for
it. If you find the program useful, and choose to keep the program, then
you pay a modest registration fee to the author.

For the last nine years, PC-SIG has been providing shareware and public
domain software to its customers and members.  Since 1982 PC-SIG has
developed an unprecedented library of shareware programs, constantly
updated, consistently strong in every category.  Our library of
shareware contains over 3500 titles divided into 120 logical categories.

Every program we add to the library is thoroughly reviewed and tested to
insure that each one meets the high standards of reliability and value we
insist upon and you expect.  As a result, our library doesn't contain
every shareware program available, just those that really work.

PC-SIG has grown into the premier distributor of shareware and and
shareware information by producing shareware collections on CD-ROM,
publishing an encyclopedia of shareware, and by publishing Shareware
Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine distributed world-wide.

Quality and support - guaranteed.  All of our programs are guaranteed
virus free.  We've isolated our systems and check every program
submitted to insure that no viruses make their way to your computer or
ours.

Our support staff is available by phone as well as on our BBS to help
you with questions about installation and operation of PC-SIG's
products.

Through our network of international distributors, PC- SIG strives to
bring you the most current, exciting, technically advanced software
available as shareware.

If you can't find the software you need in PC-SIG's library, it may well
not exist.

To order the latest in Shareware, in the U.S.A: Call (800) 245-6717

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```
{% endraw %}

## README.TXT

{% raw %}
```


                      MAXimize Basic Edition, Version 3.1
                      ===================================

                                      From

                                  MAX SOFTWARE
                                  ============


                         9121 141st West
                         Taylor Ridge, IL 61284
                         Phone number: 309-798-2533
                         CompuServe user ID: 71170,740


                    Copyright (C) 1988-1990 by Don Cappaert.
                              All rights reserved.




     This is the Basic edition of MAXimize.  The following are related
     files:

          MAXUTL31.ZIP   -->  The optional utilities for usage log
                              reporting, license control and AutoMenu (MDF)
                              conversions (MAXLOG.EXE & MAXCONVT.EXE)
          MAXGLD31.ZIP   -->  The Gold edition of MAXimize

     If you are unable to locate either of these files, you may request
     them by sending $5 to the address above.  Be sure to include the
     version number of MAXimize you are using and your address.





     Table of Contents:
     ==================

     Introduction.............................................2
     Other Documentation Files................................2
     Installing MAXimize......................................2
     Starting MAXimize........................................2
     Getting Started Quickly..................................2
     Ordering MAXimize........................................3
     Getting Help.............................................4
     Common Problems..........................................4

                                                                          2

     Introduction:
     =============

     This document contains information more current than the manual.  It
     explains what documentation files are available, has information to
     get you started quickly and includes a history of changes made to
     MAXimize.

     For the shareware version of MAXimize, a shareware panel will appear
     when it is started.  This panel should appear once a day.  Also,
     MAXIMIZE.INI is a special initialization file that must not be
     deleted!  See the "Common problems" section below, if you get the DOS
     prompt after running a selection.


     Other Documentation Files:
     ==========================

     FEATURES.DOC - lists the major features of MAXimize Gold & Basic.
     WHATSNEW.DOC - lists the new features of version 3.0
     ORDER.DOC    - order form and instructions for ordering MAXimize.
     VENDOR.DOC   - vendor distribution form.
     MANUAL.DOC   - copy of manual (licensed copies get a nicely printed
                    and bound manual).


     Installing MAXimize:
     ====================

     To install MAXimize, simply run the INSTALL.EXE program provided.
     This program should be located in the directory you unpacked the files
     into.



     Starting MAXimize:
     ==================

     After installing MAXimize, you can start it by either entering MENU or
     MAX at the DOS prompt from the MAXimize directory.  For example,

          C:
          CD \MAX
          MAX


     Getting Started Quickly:
     ========================

     If you want to get started using MAXimize quickly and know a little
     about DOS, then keep the following in mind:

     1) After starting MAXimize, sample menus will be displayed.  The
        selections on these menus will either:

        A) Display another menu (These selections have "menu" added to the
           end of their descriptions as in "Games menu").

                                                                          3

        B) "ECHO" a statement to the screen.  These selections should be
           changed to run your program.  Simply change the "ECHO" to your
           program name and clear or change the "Parameters."
        C) Perform some work. This is done in the menus that start with
           "SAMP" only.

        An "ECHO" is usually done, such as with the "Word Processor"
        selection. These menus are provided to give you one possible way
        to organize your applications using the menus.  Feel free to
        update these menus to fit your particular needs.

        NOTE:  Any menu starting with SAMP will be replaced when you
               upgrade.  The "SAMP" menus are displayed by selecting
               "Samples menu" from the main menu.  Also, the sample menus
               assume that the directory containing DOS is in your PATH.

     2) The menu bar is displayed in the top line of the screen.  It is
        activated by the slash (/), Alt or F10 keys.  From the menu bar,
        you may choose file to display another menu or exit from MAXimize.
        The edit selection in the menu bar has selections to update the
        menu displayed or the selections within the menu.  The options
        selection allows you to change MAXimize's options (such as the
        colors).  And the help selection in the menu bar allows you to get
        help for a selection, for MAXimize or about MAXimize (its edition
        and version).

     3) The status line is the bottom line of the screen.  It contains a
        list of keys most often needed.  These keys will change as you do
        different tasks (such as add, update, delete, etc.).  In general,
        you should look at the status line if you're not sure which key to
        press.

     4) If you need help at any time, simply press F2.  MAXimize contains
        extensive help that is context sensitive (that is, MAXimize
        displays help that pertains to the operation you're currently
        doing).  If you are not sure how to use the help facility, simply
        press F1 for an explanation of the help facility.

     5) To modify a selection, simply highlight it by using the arrow keys
        or mark it by pressing the space bar (you may mark several
        selections in ONE menu).  Then press "Alt+E" to Edit.  You may
        then add, update, delete, copy or transfer the selection(s).

     6) To modify the menu, simply display it and press "Alt+E U M".

     7) To change options (colors, passwords, etc.), simply press "ALT+O".


     Ordering MAXimize:
     ==================

     When you order MAXimize, you will receive a beautiful manual, a
     reference card and the latest version of MAXimize on a diskette.  Max
     Software will provide support for any problems or questions you might
     have for at least 90 days after you order MAXimize.  You will also be
     notified when there are updates to or newer versions of MAXimize.

                                                                          4

     To order MAXimize (or additional copies of MAXimize), simply print off
     the order form.  The order form can be printed by entering "PRINT
     ORDER.DOC" at the DOS prompt from the MAXimize installation directory.
     Then simply follow the instructions on the order form.  If you will be
     using MAXimize on a LAN, be sure to specify a LAN license (the
     software is different for LANs).


     Getting Help:
     =============

     To get help, you may:

     1) Send a letter to:     Max Software
                              9121 141st West
                              Taylor Ridge, IL 61284

     2) Send a message to CompuServe user ID 71170,740

     3) Call the MAXimize phone line at 309-798-2533

     Be sure to include your name, address, phone number and company name
     (if applicable).  The text of the letter should adequately describe
     the problem you are having.  If a selection is causing the problem,
     please include information about the selection.


     Common Problems:
     ================

     1) If after your selection runs you have been returned to the DOS
        prompt instead of in MAXimize.  Then you probably are running a
        batch file from a selection and that batch file runs another one
        without using the DOS CALL (or COMMAND /C) when doing this.

     2) If you lose position on the sub-menu (main menu is displayed)
        after the selection runs, then the commands invoked through the
        selection has probably invoked MAXimize again.  This may have been
        done because of the first problem above (going back to the DOS
        prompt after running a selection).  Remove the line  that invokes
        MAXimize again from the commands.

```
{% endraw %}

## SHAREMAG.TXT

{% raw %}
```
              S H A R E W A R E  M A G A Z I N E
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Shareware Magazine has distinguished itself as the only internationally
distributed periodical devoted to the use and business of shareware.
Shareware Magazine provides detailed reviews of new products,
hard-hitting comparisons of shareware programs with regular retail
software, and timely information about changes in the industry and the
latest technology.

Intriguing columnists and regular features add to the excitement.  The
beginners section sheds light on new user's concerns regarding
everything from choosing the right operating system to alleviating the
intimidation of using on-line systems.

Educational sections focus on how low cost shareware can aid in
classroom learning, curriculum development, and as a forum for
discussing the impact of computers and technology in schools.

Graphics Gallery renders expert advice and suggestions on how to better
work with graphics, desktop publishing, CAD systems, and the Windows
environment.

Programmers benefit from others experience in developing new programs or
polishing existing ones as well as choosing the right programming
language.

And columnists provide that subjective component, sometimes
controversial, that calls for a closer look at the way we compute and
how shareware effects what we do.

Published bimonthly, Shareware Magazine is available on a subscription
or at your local newsstand or computer bookstore.  In conjunction with
PC-SIG, there are special benefits for subscribers as well as
opportunities for discount purchases from PC-SIG.


To Order, in the U.S.A.: Call 800-245-6717 and ask Customer Service.

Outside the U.S.A.: Call (408) 730-9291 for the name of the dealer near
you.
```
{% endraw %}

## SIGORDER.TXT

{% raw %}
```
                                      [B]

FROM:  ___________________________

       ___________________________

       ___________________________
[A]                                                                         [B]
       ___________________________


                                  PC-SIG Inc.
[A]                                                                         [B]
                            1030-D East Duane Avenue

                               Sunnyvale  California

                                     94086


























Fold - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Fold

       HOW TO USE THIS RETURN ENVELOPE

       1.  Place any other pages underneath this page.
       2.  Using the Fold lines (above) as a guide, fold this flap under.
       3.  Fold the address flap so it covers this flap.
       4.  Tape or staple the envelope at the two spots marked [A].
       5.  Slip in any other enclosures (business cards, cheques, etc.).
       6.  Tape or staple the envelope at the spots marked [B].














THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO PRINT THIS FORM -*- MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
PC-SIG Inc. 1030-D East Duane Avenue Sunnyvale CA 94086






---------------------------------------------------------------------

     Do not mail cash.   Please allow four weeks for processing.

---------------------------------------------------------------------




Check the items desired:

PC-SIG Disks - Member $2.49 for 5.25" or $2.99 for 3.5"
           Non-member $3.50 for 5.25" or $4.00 for 3.5"

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

_____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  total  ______

One year subscription to Shareware Magazine            $19.95  ______

Super Saver Membership                                 $39.95  ______
(includes a 1 year subscription to Shareware Magazine,
 the PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher,
 and 5 free disks)

The PC-SIG Catalog on Disk                              $5.00  ______
($5.00 is refundable with your first order)

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia on Disk with WordCruncher      $20.00  ______

The PC-SIG World of Games CD-ROM                       $19.95  ______ 

The PC-SIG 12th Edition Library CD-ROM                 $99.00  ______

Upgrade to the 12th Edition from ANY previous edition
of the PC-SIG Library on CD-ROM!                       $59.00  ______

Upgrade from ANY other CD-ROM just!                    $59.00  ______

The Essential Home & Business Collection CD-ROM        $39.00  ______  

The PC-SIG Encyclopedia of Shareware on CD-ROM
(1 year subscription)                                  $99.00  ______


                                                    Subtotal   ______

Shipping and Handling                                          $4.00

                    California residents add 8.25% sales tax   ______

                                                       TOTAL   ______



      If you have any comments or suggestions, please let us know!

To order by phone with VISA or MASTERCARD: Call (800) 245-6717
Ask for operator #2351
```
{% endraw %}

{% comment %}samples_end{% endcomment %}

### Directory of PC-SIG Library Disk #3655

     Volume in drive A has no label
     Directory of A:\

    README   TXT      8709   1-20-93   1:02a
    MAXBASIC ZIP    235914   6-22-93   2:06p
    GO-STRT  DAT       541   6-01-93  11:07a
    SIGORDER TXT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO-FORM  DAT      3336   6-01-93   2:30p
    GO       EXE     26022   1-10-92  12:14p
    PKUNZIP  EXE     29378   2-01-93   2:04a
    PCSIG    TXT      2329   6-01-93   2:31p
    SHAREMAG TXT      1831   6-01-93   2:32p
    CDROM    TXT      8196   6-01-93   3:26p
           10 file(s)     319592 bytes
                           36864 bytes free
